Day 95:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jedu'thun, who should prophesy with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was:
    2: Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethani'ah, and Ashare'lah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
    3: Of Jedu'thun, the sons of Jedu'thun: Gedali'ah, Zeri, Jeshai'ah, Shim'e-i, Hashabi'ah, and Mattithi'ah, six, under the direction of their father Jedu'thun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the LORD.
    4: Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukki'ah, Mattani'ah, Uz'ziel, Shebu'el, and Jer'imoth, Hanani'ah, Hana'ni, Eli'athah, Giddal'ti, and Romam'ti-e'zer, Joshbekash'ah, Mallo'thi, Hothir, Maha'zi-oth.
    5: All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him; for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
    6: They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jedu'thun, and Heman were under the order of the king.
    7: The number of them along with their brethren, who were trained in singing to the LORD, all who were skilful, was two hundred and eighty-eight.
    8: And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
    9: The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedali'ah, to him and his brethren and his sons, twelve;
    10: the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    11: the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    12: the fifth to Nethani'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    13: the sixth to Bukki'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    14: the seventh to Jeshare'lah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    15: the eighth to Jeshai'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    16: the ninth to Mattani'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    17: the tenth to Shim'e-i, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    18: the eleventh to Az'arel, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    19: the twelfth to Hashabi'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    20: to the thirteenth, Shu'ba-el, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    21: to the fourteenth, Mattithi'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    22: to the fifteenth, to Jer'emoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    23: to the sixteenth, to Hanani'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    24: to the seventeenth, to Joshbekash'ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    25: to the eighteenth, to Hana'ni, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    26: to the nineteenth, to Mallo'thi, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    27: to the twentieth, to Eli'athah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    28: to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    29: to the twenty-second, to Giddal'ti, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    30: to the twenty-third, to Maha'zi-oth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
    31: to the twenty-fourth, to Romam'ti-e'zer, his sons and his brethren, twelve.

  Chapter 26.

    1: As for the divisions of the gatekeepers: of the Ko'rahites, Meshelemi'ah the son of Ko're, of the sons of Asaph.
    2: And Meshelemi'ah had sons: Zechari'ah the first-born, Jedi'a-el the second, Zebadi'ah the third, Jath'ni-el the fourth,
    3: Elam the fifth, Jehoha'nan the sixth, Eli-e-ho-e'nai the seventh.
    4: And O'bed-e'dom had sons: Shemai'ah the first-born, Jehoz'abad the second, Jo'ah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethan'el the fifth,
    5: Am'mi-el the sixth, Is'sachar the seventh, Pe-ul'lethai the eighth; for God blessed him.
    6: Also to his son Shemai'ah were sons born who were rulers in their fathers' houses, for they were men of great ability.
    7: The sons of Shemai'ah: Othni, Reph'a-el, Obed, and Elza'bad, whose brethren were able men, Eli'hu and Semachi'ah.
    8: All these were of the sons of O'bed-e'dom with their sons and brethren, able men qualified for the service; sixty-two of O'bed-e'dom.
    9: And Meshelemi'ah had sons and brethren, able men, eighteen.
    10: And Hosah, of the sons of Merar'i, had sons: Shimri the chief (for though he was not the first-born, his father made him chief),
    11: Hilki'ah the second, Tebali'ah the third, Zechari'ah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.
    12: These divisions of the gatekeepers, corresponding to their chief men, had duties, just as their brethren did, ministering in the house of the LORD;
    13: and they cast lots by fathers' houses, small and great alike, for their gates.
    14: The lot for the east fell to Shelemi'ah. They cast lots also for his son Zechari'ah, a shrewd counselor, and his lot came out for the north.
    15: O'bed-e'dom's came out for the south, and to his sons was allotted the storehouse.
    16: For Shuppim and Hosah it came out for the west, at the gate of Shal'lecheth on the road that goes up. Watch corresponded to watch.
    17: On the east there were six each day, on the north four each day, on the south four each day, as well as two and two at the storehouse;
    18: and for the parbar on the west there were four at the road and two at the parbar.
    19: These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the Ko'rahites and the sons of Merar'i.
    20: And of the Levites, Ahi'jah had charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries of the dedicated gifts.
    21: The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers' houses belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehi'eli.
    22: The sons of Jehi'eli, Zetham and Jo'el his brother, were in charge of the treasuries of the house of the LORD.
    23: Of the Am'ramites, the Iz'harites, the He'bronites, and the Uzzie'lites --
    24: and Sheb'uel the son of Gershom, son of Moses, was chief officer in charge of the treasuries.
    25: His brethren: from Elie'zer were his son Rehabi'ah, and his son Jeshai'ah, and his son Joram, and his son Zichri, and his son Shelo'moth.
    26: This Shelo'moth and his brethren were in charge of all the treasuries of the dedicated gifts which David the king, and the heads of the fathers' houses, and the officers of the thousands and the hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had dedicated.
    27: From spoil won in battles they dedicated gifts for the maintenance of the house of the LORD.
    28: Also all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah had dedicated -- all dedicated gifts were in the care of Shelo'moth and his brethren.
    29: Of the Iz'harites, Chenani'ah and his sons were appointed to outside duties for Israel, as officers and judges.
    30: Of the He'bronites, Hashabi'ah and his brethren, one thousand seven hundred men of ability, had the oversight of Israel westward of the Jordan for all the work of the LORD and for the service of the king.
    31: Of the He'bronites, Jeri'jah was chief of the He'bronites of whatever genealogy or fathers' houses. (In the fortieth year of David's reign search was made and men of great ability among them were found at Jazer in Gilead.)
    32: King David appointed him and his brethren, two thousand seven hundred men of ability, heads of fathers' houses, to have the oversight of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manas'sites for everything pertaining to God and for the affairs of the king.1 Chronicles

  Chapter 27.

    1: This is the list of the people of Israel, the heads of fathers’ houses, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all matters concerning the divisions that came and went, month after month throughout the year, each division numbering twenty-four thousand:
    2: Jasho'beam the son of Zab'di-el was in charge of the first division in the first month; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    3: He was a descendant of Perez, and was chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month.
    4: Dodai the Aho'hite was in charge of the division of the second month; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    5: The third commander, for the third month, was Benai'ah, the son of Jehoi'ada the priest, as chief; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    6: This is the Benai'ah who was a mighty man of the thirty and in command of the thirty; Ammiz'abad his son was in charge of his division.
    7: As'ahel the brother of Jo'ab was fourth, for the fourth month, and his son Zebadi'ah after him; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    8: The fifth commander, for the fifth month, was Shamhuth, the Iz'rahite; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    9: Sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Ikkesh the Teko'ite; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    10: Seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pel'onite, of the sons of E'phraim; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    11: Eighth, for the eighth month, was Sib'becai the Hu'shathite, of the Ze'rahites; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    12: Ninth, for the ninth month, was Abi-e'zer of An'athoth, a Benjaminite; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    13: Tenth, for the tenth month, was Ma'harai of Netoph'ah, of the Ze'rahites; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    14: Eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benai'ah of Pira'thon, of the sons of E'phraim; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    15: Twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netoph'athite, of Oth'ni-el; in his division were twenty-four thousand.
    16: Over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites Elie'zer the son of Zichri was chief officer; for the Simeonites, Shephati'ah the son of Ma'acah;
    17: for Levi, Hashabi'ah the son of Kem'uel; for Aaron, Zadok;
    18: for Judah, Eli'hu, one of David's brothers; for Is'sachar, Omri the son of Michael;
    19: for Zeb'ulun, Ishma'iah the son of Obadi'ah; for Naph'tali, Jer'emoth the son of Az'riel;
    20: for the E'phraimites, Hoshe'a the son of Azazi'ah; for the half-tribe of Manas'seh, Jo'el the son of Pedai'ah;
    21: for the half-tribe of Manas'seh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechari'ah; for Benjamin, Ja-a'si-el the son of Abner;
    22: for Dan, Az'arel the son of Jero'ham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.
    23: David did not number those below twenty years of age, for the LORD had promised to make Israel as many as the stars of heaven.
    24: Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah began to number, but did not finish; yet wrath came upon Israel for this, and the number was not entered in the chronicles of King David.
    25: Over the king's treasuries was Az'maveth the son of Ad'i-el; and over the treasuries in the country, in the cities, in the villages and in the towers, was Jonathan the son of Uzzi'ah;
    26: and over those who did the work of the field for tilling the soil was Ezri the son of Chelub;
    27: and over the vineyards was Shim'e-i the Ra'mathite; and over the produce of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite.
    28: Over the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephe'lah was Ba'al-ha'nan the Gede'rite; and over the stores of oil was Jo'ash.
    29: Over the herds that pastured in Sharon was Shitrai the Shar'onite; over the herds in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai.
    30: Over the camels was Obil the Ish'maelite; and over the she-asses was Jehde'iah the Meron'othite. Over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
    31: All these were stewards of King David's property.
    32: Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, being a man of understanding and a scribe; he and Jehi'el the son of Hach'moni attended the king's sons.
    33: Ahith'ophel was the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend.
    34: Ahith'ophel was succeeded by Jehoi'ada the son of Benai'ah, and Abi'athar. Jo'ab was commander of the king's army.

  Chapter 28.

    1: David assembled at Jerusalem all the officials of Israel, the officials of the tribes, the officers of the divisions that served the king, the commanders of thousands, the commanders of hundreds, the stewards of all the property and cattle of the king and his sons, together with the palace officials, the mighty men, and all the seasoned warriors.
    2: Then King David rose to his feet and said: "Hear me, my brethren and my people. I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the footstool of our God; and I made preparations for building.
    3: But God said to me, `You may not build a house for my name, for you are a warrior and have shed blood.'
    4: Yet the LORD God of Israel chose me from all my father's house to be king over Israel for ever; for he chose Judah as leader, and in the house of Judah my father's house, and among my father's sons he took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel.
    5: And of all my sons (for the LORD has given me many sons) he has chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.
    6: He said to me, `It is Solomon your son who shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
    7: I will establish his kingdom for ever if he continues resolute in keeping my commandments and my ordinances, as he is today.'
    8: Now therefore in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of the LORD your God; that you may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you for ever.
    9: "And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father, and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind; for the LORD searches all hearts, and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will cast you off for ever.
    10: Take heed now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong, and do it."
    11: Then David gave Solomon his son the plan of the vestibule of the temple, and of its houses, its treasuries, its upper rooms, and its inner chambers, and of the room for the mercy seat;
    12: and the plan of all that he had in mind for the courts of the house of the LORD, all the surrounding chambers, the treasuries of the house of God, and the treasuries for dedicated gifts;
    13: for the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, and all the work of the service in the house of the LORD; for all the vessels for the service in the house of the LORD,
    14: the weight of gold for all golden vessels for each service, the weight of silver vessels for each service,
    15: the weight of the golden lampstands and their lamps, the weight of gold for each lampstand and its lamps, the weight of silver for a lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand in the service,
    16: the weight of gold for each table for the showbread, the silver for the silver tables,
    17: and pure gold for the forks, the basins, and the cups; for the golden bowls and the weight of each; for the silver bowls and the weight of each;
    18: for the altar of incense made of refined gold, and its weight; also his plan for the golden chariot of the cherubim that spread their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
    19: All this he made clear by the writing from the hand of the LORD concerning it, all the work to be done according to the plan.
    20: Then David said to Solomon his son, "Be strong and of good courage, and do it. Fear not, be not dismayed; for the LORD God, even my God, is with you. He will not fail you or forsake you, until all the work for the service of the house of the LORD is finished.
    21: And behold the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of the house of God; and with you in all the work will be every willing man who has skill for any kind of service; also the officers and all the people will be wholly at your command."

End of day 95.