Day 71:

Reading 2-Samuel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron, and said, "Behold, we are your bone and flesh.
    2: In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was you that led out and brought in Israel; and the LORD said to you, `You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over Israel.'"
    3: So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron; and King David made a covenant with them at Hebron before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel.
    4: David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.
    5: At Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months; and at Jerusalem he reigned over all Israel and Judah thirty-three years.
    6: And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jeb'usites, the inhabitants of the land, who said to David, "You will not come in here, but the blind and the lame will ward you off" -- thinking, "David cannot come in here."
    7: Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
    8: And David said on that day, "Whoever would smite the Jeb'usites, let him get up the water shaft to attack the lame and the blind, who are hated by David's soul." Therefore it is said, "The blind and the lame shall not come into the house."
    9: And David dwelt in the stronghold, and called it the city of David. And David built the city round about from the Millo inward.
    10: And David became greater and greater, for the LORD, the God of hosts, was with him.
    11: And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, also carpenters and masons who built David a house.
    12: And David perceived that the LORD had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel.
    13: And David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron; and more sons and daughters were born to David.
    14: And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Sham'mu-a, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
    15: Ibhar, Eli'shu-a, Nepheg, Japhi'a,
    16: Eli'shama, Eli'ada, and Eliph'elet.
    17: When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, all the Philistines went up in search of David; but David heard of it and went down to the stronghold.
    18: Now the Philistines had come and spread out in the valley of Reph'aim.
    19: And David inquired of the LORD, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? Wilt thou give them into my hand?" And the LORD said to David, "Go up; for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand."
    20: And David came to Ba'al-pera'zim, and David defeated them there; and he said, "The LORD has broken through my enemies before me, like a bursting flood." Therefore the name of that place is called Ba'al-pera'zim.
    21: And the Philistines left their idols there, and David and his men carried them away.
    22: And the Philistines came up yet again, and spread out in the valley of Reph'aim.
    23: And when David inquired of the LORD, he said, "You shall not go up; go around to their rear, and come upon them opposite the balsam trees.
    24: And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then bestir yourself; for then the LORD has gone out before you to smite the army of the Philistines."
    25: And David did as the LORD commanded him, and smote the Philistines from Geba to Gezer.

  Chapter 6.

    1: David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
    2: And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Ba'ale-judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the LORD of hosts who sits enthroned on the cherubim.
    3: And they carried the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abin'adab which was on the hill; and Uzzah and Ahi'o, the sons of Abin'adab, were driving the new cart
    4: with the ark of God; and Ahi'o went before the ark.
    5: And David and all the house of Israel were making merry before the LORD with all their might, with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals.
    6: And when they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled.
    7: And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there because he put forth his hand to the ark; and he died there beside the ark of God.
    8: And David was angry because the LORD had broken forth upon Uzzah; and that place is called Pe'rez-uz'zah, to this day.
    9: And David was afraid of the LORD that day; and he said, "How can the ark of the LORD come to me?"
    10: So David was not willing to take the ark of the LORD into the city of David; but David took it aside to the house of O'bed-e'dom the Gittite.
    11: And the ark of the LORD remained in the house of O'bed-e'dom the Gittite three months; and the LORD blessed O'bed-e'dom and all his household.
    12: And it was told King David, "The LORD has blessed the household of O'bed-e'dom and all that belongs to him, because of the ark of God." So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of O'bed-e'dom to the city of David with rejoicing;
    13: and when those who bore the ark of the LORD had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.
    14: And David danced before the LORD with all his might; and David was girded with a linen ephod.
    15: So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the horn.
    16: As the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window, and saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD; and she despised him in her heart.
    17: And they brought in the ark of the LORD, and set it in its place, inside the tent which David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
    18: And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts,
    19: and distributed among all the people, the whole multitude of Israel, both men and women, to each a cake of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins. Then all the people departed, each to his house.
    20: And David returned to bless his household. But Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, "How the king of Israel honored himself today, uncovering himself today before the eyes of his servants' maids, as one of the vulgar fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!"
    21: And David said to Michal, "It was before the LORD, who chose me above your father, and above all his house, to appoint me as prince over Israel, the people of the LORD -- and I will make merry before the LORD.
    22: I will make myself yet more contemptible than this, and I will be abased in your eyes; but by the maids of whom you have spoken, by them I shall be held in honor."
    23: And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now when the king dwelt in his house, and the LORD had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
    2: the king said to Nathan the prophet, "See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent."
    3: And Nathan said to the king, "Go, do all that is in your heart; for the LORD is with you."
    4: But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
    5: "Go and tell my servant David, `Thus says the LORD: Would you build me a house to dwell in?
    6: I have not dwelt in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I have been moving about in a tent for my dwelling.
    7: In all places where I have moved with all the people of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"'
    8: Now therefore thus you shall say to my servant David, `Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel;
    9: and I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
    10: And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be disturbed no more; and violent men shall afflict them no more, as formerly,
    11: from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel; and I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover the LORD declares to you that the LORD will make you a house.
    12: When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come forth from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
    13: He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
    14: I will be his father, and he shall be my son. When he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men;
    15: but I will not take my steadfast love from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you.
    16: And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure for ever before me; your throne shall be established for ever.'"
    17: In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
    18: Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far?
    19: And yet this was a small thing in thy eyes, O Lord GOD; thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast shown me future generations, O Lord GOD!
    20: And what more can David say to thee? For thou knowest thy servant, O Lord GOD!
    21: Because of thy promise, and according to thy own heart, thou hast wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it.
    22: Therefore thou art great, O LORD God; for there is none like thee, and there is no God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
    23: What other nation on earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem to be his people, making himself a name, and doing for them great and terrible things, by driving out before his people a nation and its gods?
    24: And thou didst establish for thyself thy people Israel to be thy people for ever; and thou, O LORD, didst become their God.
    25: And now, O LORD God, confirm for ever the word which thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house, and do as thou hast spoken;
    26: and thy name will be magnified for ever, saying, `The LORD of hosts is God over Israel,' and the house of thy servant David will be established before thee.
    27: For thou, O LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, hast made this revelation to thy servant, saying, `I will build you a house'; therefore thy servant has found courage to pray this prayer to thee.
    28: And now, O Lord GOD, thou art God, and thy words are true, and thou hast promised this good thing to thy servant;
    29: now therefore may it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken, and with thy blessing shall the house of thy servant be blessed for ever."

  Chapter 8.

    1: After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Meth'eg-am'mah out of the hand of the Philistines.
    2: And he defeated Moab, and measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground; two lines he measured to be put to death, and one full line to be spared. And the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
    3: David also defeated Hadade'zer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the river Euphra'tes.
    4: And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for a hundred chariots.
    5: And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadade'zer king of Zobah, David slew twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
    6: Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
    7: And David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadade'zer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
    8: And from Betah and from Bero'thai, cities of Hadade'zer, King David took very much bronze.
    9: When To'i king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadade'zer,
    10: To'i sent his son Joram to King David, to greet him, and to congratulate him because he had fought against Hadade'zer and defeated him; for Hadade'zer had often been at war with To'i. And Joram brought with him articles of silver, of gold, and of bronze;
    11: these also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold which he dedicated from all the nations he subdued,
    12: from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, Am'alek, and from the spoil of Hadade'zer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
    13: And David won a name for himself. When he returned, he slew eighteen thousand E'domites in the Valley of Salt.
    14: And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom he put garrisons, and all the E'domites became David's servants. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
    15: So David reigned over all Israel; and David administered justice and equity to all his people.
    16: And Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah was over the army; and Jehosh'aphat the son of Ahi'lud was recorder;
    17: and Zadok the son of Ahi'tub and Ahim'elech the son of Abi'athar were priests; and Serai'ah was secretary;
    18: and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada was over the Cher'ethites and the Pel'ethites; and David's sons were priests.

End of day 71.