Day 32:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Command the people of Israel that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one having a discharge, and every one that is unclean through contact with the dead;
    3: you shall put out both male and female, putting them outside the camp, that they may not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell."
    4: And the people of Israel did so, and drove them outside the camp; as the LORD said to Moses, so the people of Israel did.
    5: And the LORD said to Moses,
    6: "Say to the people of Israel, When a man or woman commits any of the sins that men commit by breaking faith with the LORD, and that person is guilty,
    7: he shall confess his sin which he has committed; and he shall make full restitution for his wrong, adding a fifth to it, and giving it to him to whom he did the wrong.
    8: But if the man has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the wrong, the restitution for wrong shall go to the LORD for the priest, in addition to the ram of atonement with which atonement is made for him.
    9: And every offering, all the holy things of the people of Israel, which they bring to the priest, shall be his;
    10: and every man's holy things shall be his; whatever any man gives to the priest shall be his."
    11: And the LORD said to Moses,
    12: "Say to the people of Israel, If any man's wife goes astray and acts unfaithfully against him,
    13: if a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and she is undetected though she has defiled herself, and there is no witness against her, since she was not taken in the act;
    14: and if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he is jealous of his wife who has defiled herself; or if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he is jealous of his wife, though she has not defiled herself;
    15: then the man shall bring his wife to the priest, and bring the offering required of her, a tenth of an ephah of barley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it and put no frankincense on it, for it is a cereal offering of jealousy, a cereal offering of remembrance, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
    16: "And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before the LORD;
    17: and the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel, and take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle and put it into the water.
    18: And the priest shall set the woman before the LORD, and unbind the hair of the woman's head, and place in her hands the cereal offering of remembrance, which is the cereal offering of jealousy. And in his hand the priest shall have the water of bitterness that brings the curse.
    19: Then the priest shall make her take an oath, saying, `If no man has lain with you, and if you have not turned aside to uncleanness, while you were under your husband's authority, be free from this water of bitterness that brings the curse.
    20: But if you have gone astray, though you are under your husband's authority, and if you have defiled yourself, and some man other than your husband has lain with you,
    21: then' (let the priest make the woman take the oath of the curse, and say to the woman) `the LORD make you an execration and an oath among your people, when the LORD makes your thigh fall away and your body swell;
    22: may this water that brings the curse pass into your bowels and make your body swell and your thigh fall away.' And the woman shall say, `Amen, Amen.'
    23: "Then the priest shall write these curses in a book, and wash them off into the water of bitterness;
    24: and he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that brings the curse, and the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain.
    25: And the priest shall take the cereal offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand, and shall wave the cereal offering before the LORD and bring it to the altar;
    26: and the priest shall take a handful of the cereal offering, as its memorial portion, and burn it upon the altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
    27: And when he has made her drink the water, then, if she has defiled herself and has acted unfaithfully against her husband, the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain, and her body shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away, and the woman shall become an execration among her people.
    28: But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she shall be free and shall conceive children.
    29: "This is the law in cases of jealousy, when a wife, though under her husband's authority, goes astray and defiles herself,
    30: or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man and he is jealous of his wife; then he shall set the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall execute upon her all this law.
    31: The man shall be free from iniquity, but the woman shall bear her iniquity."

  Chapter 6.

    1: And the LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, When either a man or a woman makes a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to the LORD,
    3: he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink; he shall drink no vinegar made from wine or strong drink, and shall not drink any juice of grapes or eat grapes, fresh or dried.
    4: All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is produced by the grapevine, not even the seeds or the skins.
    5: "All the days of his vow of separation no razor shall come upon his head; until the time is completed for which he separates himself to the LORD, he shall be holy; he shall let the locks of hair of his head grow long.
    6: "All the days that he separates himself to the LORD he shall not go near a dead body.
    7: Neither for his father nor for his mother, nor for brother or sister, if they die, shall he make himself unclean; because his separation to God is upon his head.
    8: All the days of his separation he is holy to the LORD.
    9: "And if any man dies very suddenly beside him, and he defiles his consecrated head, then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day he shall shave it.
    10: On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest to the door of the tent of meeting,
    11: and the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead body. And he shall consecrate his head that same day,
    12: and separate himself to the LORD for the days of his separation, and bring a male lamb a year old for a guilt offering; but the former time shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
    13: "And this is the law for the Nazirite, when the time of his separation has been completed: he shall be brought to the door of the tent of meeting,
    14: and he shall offer his gift to the LORD, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish as a sin offering, and one ram without blemish as a peace offering,
    15: and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil, and their cereal offering and their drink offerings.
    16: And the priest shall present them before the LORD and offer his sin offering and his burnt offering,
    17: and he shall offer the ram as a sacrifice of peace offering to the LORD, with the basket of unleavened bread; the priest shall offer also its cereal offering and its drink offering.
    18: And the Nazirite shall shave his consecrated head at the door of the tent of meeting, and shall take the hair from his consecrated head and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offering.
    19: And the priest shall take the shoulder of the ram, when it is boiled, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaven the hair of his consecration,
    20: and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD; they are a holy portion for the priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered; and after that the Nazirite may drink wine.
    21: "This is the law for the Nazirite who takes a vow. His offering to the LORD shall be according to his vow as a Nazirite, apart from what else he can afford; in accordance with the vow which he takes, so shall he do according to the law for his separation as a Nazirite."
    22: The LORD said to Moses,
    23: "Say to Aaron and his sons, Thus you shall bless the people of Israel: you shall say to them,
    24: The LORD bless you and keep you:
    25: The LORD make his face to shine upon you, and be gracious to you:
    26: The LORD lift up his countenance upon you, and give you peace.
    27: "So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them."

  Chapter 7.

    1: On the day when Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed and consecrated it with all its furnishings, and had anointed and consecrated the altar with all its utensils,
    2: the leaders of Israel, heads of their fathers' houses, the leaders of the tribes, who were over those who were numbered,
    3: offered and brought their offerings before the LORD, six covered wagons and twelve oxen, a wagon for every two of the leaders, and for each one an ox; they offered them before the tabernacle.
    4: Then the LORD said to Moses,
    5: "Accept these from them, that they may be used in doing the service of the tent of meeting, and give them to the Levites, to each man according to his service."
    6: So Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
    7: Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service;
    8: and four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merar'i, according to their service, under the direction of Ith'amar the son of Aaron the priest.
    9: But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because they were charged with the care of the holy things which had to be carried on the shoulder.
    10: And the leaders offered offerings for the dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed; and the leaders offered their offering before the altar.
    11: And the LORD said to Moses, "They shall offer their offerings, one leader each day, for the dedication of the altar."
    12: He who offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Ammin'adab, of the tribe of Judah;
    13: and his offering was one silver plate whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    14: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    15: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    16: one male goat for a sin offering;
    17: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Ammin'adab.
    18: On the second day Nethan'el the son of Zu'ar, the leader of Is'sachar, made an offering;
    19: he offered for his offering one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    20: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    21: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    22: one male goat for a sin offering;
    23: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethan'el the son of Zu'ar.
    24: On the third day Eli'ab the son of Helon, the leader of the men of Zeb'ulun:
    25: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    26: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    27: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    28: one male goat for a sin offering;
    29: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eli'ab the son of Helon.
    30: On the fourth day Eli'zur the son of Shed'eur, the leader of the men of Reuben:
    31: his offering was one silver plate whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    32: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    33: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    34: one male goat for a sin offering;
    35: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eli'zur the son of Shed'eur.
    36: On the fifth day Shelu'mi-el the son of Zurishad'dai, the leader of the men of Simeon:
    37: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    38: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    39: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    40: one male goat for a sin offering;
    41: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Shelu'mi-el the son of Zurishad'dai.
    42: On the sixth day Eli'asaph the son of Deu'el, the leader of the men of Gad:
    43: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    44: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    45: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    46: one male goat for a sin offering;
    47: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eli'asaph the son of Deu'el.
    48: On the seventh day Eli'shama the son of Ammi'hud, the leader of the men of E'phraim:
    49: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    50: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    51: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    52: one male goat for a sin offering;
    53: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eli'shama the son of Ammi'hud.
    54: On the eighth day Gama'liel the son of Pedah'zur, the leader of the men of Manas'seh:
    55: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    56: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    57: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    58: one male goat for a sin offering;
    59: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gama'liel the son of Pedah'zur.
    60: On the ninth day Abi'dan the son of Gideo'ni, the leader of the men of Benjamin:
    61: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    62: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    63: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    64: one male goat for a sin offering;
    65: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abi'dan the son of Gideo'ni.
    66: On the tenth day Ahie'zer the son of Ammishad'dai, the leader of the men of Dan:
    67: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    68: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    69: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    70: one male goat for a sin offering;
    71: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahie'zer the son of Ammishad'dai.
    72: On the eleventh day Pa'giel the son of Ochran, the leader of the men of Asher:
    73: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    74: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    75: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    76: one male goat for a sin offering;
    77: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pa'giel the son of Ochran.
    78: On the twelfth day Ahi'ra the son of Enan, the leader of the men of Naph'tali:
    79: his offering was one silver plate, whose weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;
    80: one golden dish of ten shekels, full of incense;
    81: one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
    82: one male goat for a sin offering;
    83: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahi'ra the son of Enan.
    84: This was the dedication offering for the altar, on the day when it was anointed, from the leaders of Israel: twelve silver plates, twelve silver basins, twelve golden dishes,
    85: each silver plate weighing a hundred and thirty shekels and each basin seventy, all the silver of the vessels two thousand four hundred shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary,
    86: the twelve golden dishes, full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece according to the shekel of the sanctuary, all the gold of the dishes being a hundred and twenty shekels;
    87: all the cattle for the burnt offering twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs a year old, with their cereal offering; and twelve male goats for a sin offering;
    88: and all the cattle for the sacrifice of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication offering for the altar, after it was anointed.
    89: And when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with the LORD, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was upon the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; and it spoke to him.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now the LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to Aaron, When you set up the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in front of the lampstand."
    3: And Aaron did so; he set up its lamps to give light in front of the lampstand, as the LORD commanded Moses.
    4: And this was the workmanship of the lampstand, hammered work of gold; from its base to its flowers, it was hammered work; according to the pattern which the LORD had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
    5: And the LORD said to Moses,
    6: "Take the Levites from among the people of Israel, and cleanse them.
    7: And thus you shall do to them, to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of expiation upon them, and let them go with a razor over all their body, and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves.
    8: Then let them take a young bull and its cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil, and you shall take another young bull for a sin offering.
    9: And you shall present the Levites before the tent of meeting, and assemble the whole congregation of the people of Israel.
    10: When you present the Levites before the LORD, the people of Israel shall lay their hands upon the Levites,
    11: and Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD as a wave offering from the people of Israel, that it may be theirs to do the service of the LORD.
    12: Then the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bulls; and you shall offer the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering to the LORD, to make atonement for the Levites.
    13: And you shall cause the Levites to attend Aaron and his sons, and shall offer them as a wave offering to the LORD.
    14: "Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the people of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
    15: And after that the Levites shall go in to do service at the tent of meeting, when you have cleansed them and offered them as a wave offering.
    16: For they are wholly given to me from among the people of Israel; instead of all that open the womb, the first-born of all the people of Israel, I have taken them for myself.
    17: For all the first-born among the people of Israel are mine, both of man and of beast; on the day that I slew all the first-born in the land of Egypt I consecrated them for myself,
    18: and I have taken the Levites instead of all the first-born among the people of Israel.
    19: And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and his sons from among the people of Israel, to do the service for the people of Israel at the tent of meeting, and to make atonement for the people of Israel, that there may be no plague among the people of Israel in case the people of Israel should come near the sanctuary."
    20: Thus did Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the people of Israel to the Levites; according to all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, the people of Israel did to them.
    21: And the Levites purified themselves from sin, and washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them as a wave offering before the LORD, and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
    22: And after that the Levites went in to do their service in the tent of meeting in attendance upon Aaron and his sons; as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
    23: And the LORD said to Moses,
    24: "This is what pertains to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall go in to perform the work in the service of the tent of meeting;
    25: and from the age of fifty years they shall withdraw from the work of the service and serve no more,
    26: but minister to their brethren in the tent of meeting, to keep the charge, and they shall do no service. Thus shall you do to the Levites in assigning their duties."

End of day 32.