Day 177:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['133', '134', '135', '136']:

  Chapter 133.

    1: Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity!
    2: It is like the precious oil upon the head, running down upon the beard, upon the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes!
    3: It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion! For there the LORD has commanded the blessing, life for evermore.

  Chapter 134.

    1: Come, bless the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, who stand by night in the house of the LORD!
    2: Lift up your hands to the holy place, and bless the LORD!
    3: May the LORD bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth!

  Chapter 135.

    1: Praise the LORD. Praise the name of the LORD, give praise, O servants of the LORD,
    2: you that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God!
    3: Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; sing to his name, for he is gracious!
    4: For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his own possession.
    5: For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
    6: Whatever the LORD pleases he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps.
    7: He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
    8: He it was who smote the first-born of Egypt, both of man and of beast;
    9: who in thy midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants;
    10: who smote many nations and slew mighty kings,
    11: Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,
    12: and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel.
    13: Thy name, O LORD, endures for ever, thy renown, O LORD, throughout all ages.
    14: For the LORD will vindicate his people, and have compassion on his servants.
    15: The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
    16: They have mouths, but they speak not, they have eyes, but they see not,
    17: they have ears, but they hear not, nor is there any breath in their mouths.
    18: Like them be those who make them! -- yea, every one who trusts in them!
    19: O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
    20: O house of Levi, bless the LORD! You that fear the LORD, bless the LORD!
    21: Blessed be the LORD from Zion, he who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the LORD!

  Chapter 136.

    1: O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures for ever.
    2: O give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures for ever.
    3: O give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    4: to him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    5: to him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    6: to him who spread out the earth upon the waters, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    7: to him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    8: the sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    9: the moon and stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    10: to him who smote the first-born of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    11: and brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    12: with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    13: to him who divided the Red Sea in sunder, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    14: and made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    15: but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    16: to him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    17: to him who smote great kings, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    18: and slew famous kings, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    19: Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    20: and Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    21: and gave their land as a heritage, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    22: a heritage to Israel his servant, for his steadfast love endures for ever.
    23: It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    24: and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures for ever;
    25: he who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures for ever.
    26: O give thanks to the God of heaven, for his steadfast love endures for ever.

End of day 177.