Day 168:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['97', '98', '99', '100']:

  Chapter 97.

    1: The LORD reigns; let the earth rejoice; let the many coastlands be glad!
    2: Clouds and thick darkness are round about him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
    3: Fire goes before him, and burns up his adversaries round about.
    4: His lightnings lighten the world; the earth sees and trembles.
    5: The mountains melt like wax before the LORD, before the Lord of all the earth.
    6: The heavens proclaim his righteousness; and all the peoples behold his glory.
    7: All worshipers of images are put to shame, who make their boast in worthless idols; all gods bow down before him.
    8: Zion hears and is glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoice, because of thy judgments, O God.
    9: For thou, O LORD, art most high over all the earth; thou art exalted far above all gods.
    10: The LORD loves those who hate evil; he preserves the lives of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked.
    11: Light dawns for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.
    12: Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous, and give thanks to his holy name!

  Chapter 98.

    1: O sing to the LORD a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his holy arm have gotten him victory.
    2: The LORD has made known his victory, he has revealed his vindication in the sight of the nations.
    3: He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the victory of our God.
    4: Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth; break forth into joyous song and sing praises!
    5: Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody!
    6: With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the LORD!
    7: Let the sea roar, and all that fills it; the world and those who dwell in it!
    8: Let the floods clap their hands; let the hills sing for joy together
    9: before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.

  Chapter 99.

    1: The LORD reigns; let the peoples tremble! He sits enthroned upon the cherubim; let the earth quake!
    2: The LORD is great in Zion; he is exalted over all the peoples.
    3: Let them praise thy great and terrible name! Holy is he!
    4: Mighty King, lover of justice, thou hast established equity; thou hast executed justice and righteousness in Jacob.
    5: Extol the LORD our God; worship at his footstool! Holy is he!
    6: Moses and Aaron were among his priests, Samuel also was among those who called on his name. They cried to the LORD, and he answered them.
    7: He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud; they kept his testimonies, and the statutes that he gave them.
    8: O LORD our God, thou didst answer them; thou wast a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their wrongdoings.
    9: Extol the LORD our God, and worship at his holy mountain; for the LORD our God is holy!

  Chapter 100.

    1: Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the lands!
    2: Serve the LORD with gladness! Come into his presence with singing!
    3: Know that the LORD is God! It is he that made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
    4: Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him, bless his name!
    5: For the LORD is good; his steadfast love endures for ever, and his faithfulness to all generations.

End of day 168.