Day 16:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Go in to Pharaoh, and say to him, `Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, "Let my people go, that they may serve me.
    2: For if you refuse to let them go and still hold them,
    3: behold, the hand of the LORD will fall with a very severe plague upon your cattle which are in the field, the horses, the asses, the camels, the herds, and the flocks.
    4: But the LORD will make a distinction between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt, so that nothing shall die of all that belongs to the people of Israel."'"
    5: And the LORD set a time, saying, "Tomorrow the LORD will do this thing in the land."
    6: And on the morrow the LORD did this thing; all the cattle of the Egyptians died, but of the cattle of the people of Israel not one died.
    7: And Pharaoh sent, and behold, not one of the cattle of the Israelites was dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go.
    8: And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "Take handfuls of ashes from the kiln, and let Moses throw them toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.
    9: And it shall become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and become boils breaking out in sores on man and beast throughout all the land of Egypt."
    10: So they took ashes from the kiln, and stood before Pharaoh, and Moses threw them toward heaven, and it became boils breaking out in sores on man and beast.
    11: And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils were upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians.
    12: But the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them; as the LORD had spoken to Moses.
    13: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, and say to him, `Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, "Let my people go, that they may serve me.
    14: For this time I will send all my plagues upon your heart, and upon your servants and your people, that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth.
    15: For by now I could have put forth my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth;
    16: but for this purpose have I let you live, to show you my power, so that my name may be declared throughout all the earth.
    17: You are still exalting yourself against my people, and will not let them go.
    18: Behold, tomorrow about this time I will cause very heavy hail to fall, such as never has been in Egypt from the day it was founded until now.
    19: Now therefore send, get your cattle and all that you have in the field into safe shelter; for the hail shall come down upon every man and beast that is in the field and is not brought home, and they shall die."'"
    20: Then he who feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh made his slaves and his cattle flee into the houses;
    21: but he who did not regard the word of the LORD left his slaves and his cattle in the field.
    22: And the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch forth your hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man and beast and every plant of the field, throughout the land of Egypt."
    23: Then Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven; and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and fire ran down to the earth. And the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt;
    24: there was hail, and fire flashing continually in the midst of the hail, very heavy hail, such as had never been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
    25: The hail struck down everything that was in the field throughout all the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and the hail struck down every plant of the field, and shattered every tree of the field.
    26: Only in the land of Goshen, where the people of Israel were, there was no hail.
    27: Then Pharaoh sent, and called Moses and Aaron, and said to them, "I have sinned this time; the LORD is in the right, and I and my people are in the wrong.
    28: Entreat the LORD; for there has been enough of this thunder and hail; I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer."
    29: Moses said to him, "As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will stretch out my hands to the LORD; the thunder will cease, and there will be no more hail, that you may know that the earth is the LORD's.
    30: But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear the LORD God."
    31: (The flax and the barley were ruined, for the barley was in the ear and the flax was in bud.
    32: But the wheat and the spelt were not ruined, for they are late in coming up.)
    33: So Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and stretched out his hands to the LORD; and the thunder and the hail ceased, and the rain no longer poured upon the earth.
    34: But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he sinned yet again, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
    35: So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken through Moses.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Go in to Pharaoh; for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, that I may show these signs of mine among them,
    2: and that you may tell in the hearing of your son and of your son's son how I have made sport of the Egyptians and what signs I have done among them; that you may know that I am the LORD."
    3: So Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and said to him, "Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, `How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me.
    4: For if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country,
    5: and they shall cover the face of the land, so that no one can see the land; and they shall eat what is left to you after the hail, and they shall eat every tree of yours which grows in the field,
    6: and they shall fill your houses, and the houses of all your servants and of all the Egyptians; as neither your fathers nor your grandfathers have seen, from the day they came on earth to this day.'" Then he turned and went out from Pharaoh.
    7: And Pharaoh's servants said to him, "How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their God; do you not yet understand that Egypt is ruined?"
    8: So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh; and he said to them, "Go, serve the LORD your God; but who are to go?"
    9: And Moses said, "We will go with our young and our old; we will go with our sons and daughters and with our flocks and herds, for we must hold a feast to the LORD."
    10: And he said to them, "The LORD be with you, if ever I let you and your little ones go! Look, you have some evil purpose in mind.
    11: No! Go, the men among you, and serve the LORD, for that is what you desire." And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
    12: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come upon the land of Egypt, and eat every plant in the land, all that the hail has left."
    13: So Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night; and when it was morning the east wind had brought the locusts.
    14: And the locusts came up over all the land of Egypt, and settled on the whole country of Egypt, such a dense swarm of locusts as had never been before, nor ever shall be again.
    15: For they covered the face of the whole land, so that the land was darkened, and they ate all the plants in the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left; not a green thing remained, neither tree nor plant of the field, through all the land of Egypt.
    16: Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron in haste, and said, "I have sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.
    17: Now therefore, forgive my sin, I pray you, only this once, and entreat the LORD your God only to remove this death from me."
    18: So he went out from Pharaoh, and entreated the LORD.
    19: And the LORD turned a very strong west wind, which lifted the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea; not a single locust was left in all the country of Egypt.
    20: But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the children of Israel go.
    21: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand toward heaven that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness to be felt."
    22: So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days;
    23: they did not see one another, nor did any rise from his place for three days; but all the people of Israel had light where they dwelt.
    24: Then Pharaoh called Moses, and said, "Go, serve the LORD; your children also may go with you; only let your flocks and your herds remain behind."
    25: But Moses said, "You must also let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.
    26: Our cattle also must go with us; not a hoof shall be left behind, for we must take of them to serve the LORD our God, and we do not know with what we must serve the LORD until we arrive there."
    27: But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go.
    28: Then Pharaoh said to him, "Get away from me; take heed to yourself; never see my face again; for in the day you see my face you shall die."
    29: Moses said, "As you say! I will not see your face again."

  Chapter 11.

    1: The LORD said to Moses, "Yet one plague more I will bring upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence; when he lets you go, he will drive you away completely.
    2: Speak now in the hearing of the people, that they ask, every man of his neighbor and every woman of her neighbor, jewelry of silver and of gold."
    3: And the LORD gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants and in the sight of the people.
    4: And Moses said, "Thus says the LORD: About midnight I will go forth in the midst of Egypt;
    5: and all the first-born in the land of Egypt shall die, from the first-born of Pharaoh who sits upon his throne, even to the first-born of the maidservant who is behind the mill; and all the first-born of the cattle.
    6: And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has never been, nor ever shall be again.
    7: But against any of the people of Israel, either man or beast, not a dog shall growl; that you may know that the LORD makes a distinction between the Egyptians and Israel.
    8: And all these your servants shall come down to me, and bow down to me, saying, `Get you out, and all the people who follow you.' And after that I will go out." And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
    9: Then the LORD said to Moses, "Pharaoh will not listen to you; that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt."
    10: Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh; and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go out of his land.

  Chapter 12.

    1: The LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt,
    2: "This month shall be for you the beginning of months; it shall be the first month of the year for you.
    3: Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month they shall take every man a lamb according to their fathers' houses, a lamb for a household;
    4: and if the household is too small for a lamb, then a man and his neighbor next to his house shall take according to the number of persons; according to what each can eat you shall make your count for the lamb.
    5: Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old; you shall take it from the sheep or from the goats;
    6: and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month, when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs in the evening.
    7: Then they shall take some of the blood, and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses in which they eat them.
    8: They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it.
    9: Do not eat any of it raw or boiled with water, but roasted, its head with its legs and its inner parts.
    10: And you shall let none of it remain until the morning, anything that remains until the morning you shall burn.
    11: In this manner you shall eat it: your loins girded, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste. It is the LORD's passover.
    12: For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will smite all the first-born in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am the LORD.
    13: The blood shall be a sign for you, upon the houses where you are; and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague shall fall upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.
    14: "This day shall be for you a memorial day, and you shall keep it as a feast to the LORD; throughout your generations you shall observe it as an ordinance for ever.
    15: Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread; on the first day you shall put away leaven out of your houses, for if any one eats what is leavened, from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel.
    16: On the first day you shall hold a holy assembly, and on the seventh day a holy assembly; no work shall be done on those days; but what every one must eat, that only may be prepared by you.
    17: And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for on this very day I brought your hosts out of the land of Egypt: therefore you shall observe this day, throughout your generations, as an ordinance for ever.
    18: In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, and so until the twenty-first day of the month at evening.
    19: For seven days no leaven shall be found in your houses; for if any one eats what is leavened, that person shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he is a sojourner or a native of the land.
    20: You shall eat nothing leavened; in all your dwellings you shall eat unleavened bread."
    21: Then Moses called all the elders of Israel, and said to them, "Select lambs for yourselves according to your families, and kill the passover lamb.
    22: Take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood which is in the basin, and touch the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood which is in the basin; and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
    23: For the LORD will pass through to slay the Egyptians; and when he sees the blood on the lintel and on the two doorposts, the LORD will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses to slay you.
    24: You shall observe this rite as an ordinance for you and for your sons for ever.
    25: And when you come to the land which the LORD will give you, as he has promised, you shall keep this service.
    26: And when your children say to you, `What do you mean by this service?'
    27: you shall say, `It is the sacrifice of the LORD's passover, for he passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt, when he slew the Egyptians but spared our houses.'" And the people bowed their heads and worshiped.
    28: Then the people of Israel went and did so; as the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
    29: At midnight the LORD smote all the first-born in the land of Egypt, from the first-born of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the first-born of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the first-born of the cattle.
    30: And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where one was not dead.
    31: And he summoned Moses and Aaron by night, and said, "Rise up, go forth from among my people, both you and the people of Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as you have said.
    32: Take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone; and bless me also!"
    33: And the Egyptians were urgent with the people, to send them out of the land in haste; for they said, "We are all dead men."
    34: So the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their mantles on their shoulders.
    35: The people of Israel had also done as Moses told them, for they had asked of the Egyptians jewelry of silver and of gold, and clothing;
    36: and the LORD had given the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. Thus they despoiled the Egyptians.
    37: And the people of Israel journeyed from Ram'eses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children.
    38: A mixed multitude also went up with them, and very many cattle, both flocks and herds.
    39: And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they had brought out of Egypt, for it was not leavened, because they were thrust out of Egypt and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for themselves any provisions.
    40: The time that the people of Israel dwelt in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years.
    41: And at the end of four hundred and thirty years, on that very day, all the hosts of the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.
    42: It was a night of watching by the LORD, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; so this same night is a night of watching kept to the LORD by all the people of Israel throughout their generations.
    43: And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "This is the ordinance of the passover: no foreigner shall eat of it;
    44: but every slave that is bought for money may eat of it after you have circumcised him.
    45: No sojourner or hired servant may eat of it.
    46: In one house shall it be eaten; you shall not carry forth any of the flesh outside the house; and you shall not break a bone of it.
    47: All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
    48: And when a stranger shall sojourn with you and would keep the passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, then he may come near and keep it; he shall be as a native of the land. But no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
    49: There shall be one law for the native and for the stranger who sojourns among you."
    50: Thus did all the people of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
    51: And on that very day the LORD brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their hosts.

End of day 16.