Day 247:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.
    2: On the fifth day of the month (it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoi'achin),
    3: the word of the LORD came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chalde'ans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the LORD was upon him there.
    4: As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud, with brightness round about it, and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were gleaming bronze.
    5: And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they had the form of men,
    6: but each had four faces, and each of them had four wings.
    7: Their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled like burnished bronze.
    8: Under their wings on their four sides they had human hands. And the four had their faces and their wings thus:
    9: their wings touched one another; they went every one straight forward, without turning as they went.
    10: As for the likeness of their faces, each had the face of a man in front; the four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle at the back.
    11: Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above; each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies.
    12: And each went straight forward; wherever the spirit would go, they went, without turning as they went.
    13: In the midst of the living creatures there was something that looked like burning coals of fire, like torches moving to and fro among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
    14: And the living creatures darted to and fro, like a flash of lightning.
    15: Now as I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel upon the earth beside the living creatures, one for each of the four of them.
    16: As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction: their appearance was like the gleaming of a chrysolite; and the four had the same likeness, their construction being as it were a wheel within a wheel.
    17: When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went.
    18: The four wheels had rims and they had spokes; and their rims were full of eyes round about.
    19: And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose.
    20: Wherever the spirit would go, they went, and the wheels rose along with them; for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
    21: When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those rose from the earth, the wheels rose along with them; for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
    22: Over the heads of the living creatures there was the likeness of a firmament, shining like crystal, spread out above their heads.
    23: And under the firmament their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another; and each creature had two wings covering its body.
    24: And when they went, I heard the sound of their wings like the sound of many waters, like the thunder of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sound of a host; when they stood still, they let down their wings.
    25: And there came a voice from above the firmament over their heads; when they stood still, they let down their wings.
    26: And above the firmament over their heads there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like sapphire; and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness as it were of a human form.
    27: And upward from what had the appearance of his loins I saw as it were gleaming bronze, like the appearance of fire enclosed round about; and downward from what had the appearance of his loins I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness round about him.
    28: Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And he said to me, "Son of man, stand upon your feet, and I will speak with you."
    2: And when he spoke to me, the Spirit entered into me and set me upon my feet; and I heard him speaking to me.
    3: And he said to me, "Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to a nation of rebels, who have rebelled against me; they and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day.
    4: The people also are impudent and stubborn: I send you to them; and you shall say to them, `Thus says the Lord GOD.'
    5: And whether they hear or refuse to hear (for they are a rebellious house) they will know that there has been a prophet among them.
    6: And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with you and you sit upon scorpions; be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house.
    7: And you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear; for they are a rebellious house.
    8: "But you, son of man, hear what I say to you; be not rebellious like that rebellious house; open your mouth, and eat what I give you."
    9: And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me, and, lo, a written scroll was in it;
    10: and he spread it before me; and it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And he said to me, "Son of man, eat what is offered to you; eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel."
    2: So I opened my mouth, and he gave me the scroll to eat.
    3: And he said to me, "Son of man, eat this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with it." Then I ate it; and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey.
    4: And he said to me, "Son of man, go, get you to the house of Israel, and speak with my words to them.
    5: For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel --
    6: not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you to such, they would listen to you.
    7: But the house of Israel will not listen to you; for they are not willing to listen to me; because all the house of Israel are of a hard forehead and of a stubborn heart.
    8: Behold, I have made your face hard against their faces, and your forehead hard against their foreheads.
    9: Like adamant harder than flint have I made your forehead; fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house."
    10: Moreover he said to me, "Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart, and hear with your ears.
    11: And go, get you to the exiles, to your people, and say to them, `Thus says the Lord GOD'; whether they hear or refuse to hear."
    12: Then the Spirit lifted me up, and as the glory of the LORD arose from its place, I heard behind me the sound of a great earthquake;
    13: it was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the sound of the wheels beside them, that sounded like a great earthquake.
    14: The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the LORD being strong upon me;
    15: and I came to the exiles at Tel-abib, who dwelt by the river Chebar. And I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days.
    16: And at the end of seven days, the word of the LORD came to me:
    17: "Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel; whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
    18: If I say to the wicked, `You shall surely die,' and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood I will require at your hand.
    19: But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, or from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but you will have saved your life.
    20: Again, if a righteous man turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die; because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin, and his righteous deeds which he has done shall not be remembered; but his blood I will require at your hand.
    21: Nevertheless if you warn the righteous man not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he took warning; and you will have saved your life."
    22: And the hand of the LORD was there upon me; and he said to me, "Arise, go forth into the plain, and there I will speak with you."
    23: So I arose and went forth into the plain; and, lo, the glory of the LORD stood there, like the glory which I had seen by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
    24: But the Spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet; and he spoke with me and said to me, "Go, shut yourself within your house.
    25: And you, O son of man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people;
    26: and I will make your tongue cleave to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be dumb and unable to reprove them; for they are a rebellious house.
    27: But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, `Thus says the Lord GOD'; he that will hear, let him hear; and he that will refuse to hear, let him refuse; for they are a rebellious house.

  Chapter 4.

    1: "And you, O son of man, take a brick and lay it before you, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem;
    2: and put siegeworks against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it round about.
    3: And take an iron plate, and place it as an iron wall between you and the city; and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel.
    4: "Then lie upon your left side, and I will lay the punishment of the house of Israel upon you; for the number of the days that you lie upon it, you shall bear their punishment.
    5: For I assign to you a number of days, three hundred and ninety days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment; so long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel.
    6: And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and bear the punishment of the house of Judah; forty days I assign you, a day for each year.
    7: And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm bared; and you shall prophesy against the city.
    8: And, behold, I will put cords upon you, so that you cannot turn from one side to the other, till you have completed the days of your siege.
    9: "And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and spelt, and put them into a single vessel, and make bread of them. During the number of days that you lie upon your side, three hundred and ninety days, you shall eat it.
    10: And the food which you eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day; once a day you shall eat it.
    11: And water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hin; once a day you shall drink.
    12: And you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung."
    13: And the LORD said, "Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations whither I will drive them."
    14: Then I said, "Ah Lord GOD! behold, I have never defiled myself; from my youth up till now I have never eaten what died of itself or was torn by beasts, nor has foul flesh come into my mouth."
    15: Then he said to me, "See, I will let you have cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may prepare your bread."
    16: Moreover he said to me, "Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem; they shall eat bread by weight and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay.
    17: I will do this that they may lack bread and water, and look at one another in dismay, and waste away under their punishment.

End of day 247.