Day 158:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['57', '58', '59', '60']:

  Chapter 57.

    1: Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in thee my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of thy wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by.
    2: I cry to God Most High, to God who fulfils his purpose for me.
    3: He will send from heaven and save me, he will put to shame those who trample upon me. [Selah] God will send forth his steadfast love and his faithfulness!
    4: I lie in the midst of lions that greedily devour the sons of men; their teeth are spears and arrows, their tongues sharp swords.
    5: Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let thy glory be over all the earth!
    6: They set a net for my steps; my soul was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves. [Selah]
    7: My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast! I will sing and make melody!
    8: Awake, my soul! Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
    9: I will give thanks to thee, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to thee among the nations.
    10: For thy steadfast love is great to the heavens, thy faithfulness to the clouds.
    11: Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let thy glory be over all the earth!

  Chapter 58.

    1: Do you indeed decree what is right, you gods? Do you judge the sons of men uprightly?
    2: Nay, in your hearts you devise wrongs; your hands deal out violence on earth.
    3: The wicked go astray from the womb, they err from their birth, speaking lies.
    4: They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear,
    5: so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or of the cunning enchanter.
    6: O God, break the teeth in their mouths; tear out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD!
    7: Let them vanish like water that runs away; like grass let them be trodden down and wither.
    8: Let them be like the snail which dissolves into slime, like the untimely birth that never sees the sun.
    9: Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of thorns, whether green or ablaze, may he sweep them away!
    10: The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked.
    11: Men will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; surely there is a God who judges on earth."

  Chapter 59.

    1: Deliver me from my enemies, O my God, protect me from those who rise up against me,
    2: deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men.
    3: For, lo, they lie in wait for my life; fierce men band themselves against me. For no transgression or sin of mine, O LORD,
    4: for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Rouse thyself, come to my help, and see!
    5: Thou, LORD God of hosts, art God of Israel. Awake to punish all the nations; spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. [Selah]
    6: Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
    7: There they are, bellowing with their mouths, and snarling with their lips -- for "Who," they think, "will hear us?"
    8: But thou, O LORD, dost laugh at them; thou dost hold all the nations in derision.
    9: O my Strength, I will sing praises to thee; for thou, O God, art my fortress.
    10: My God in his steadfast love will meet me; my God will let me look in triumph on my enemies.
    11: Slay them not, lest my people forget; make them totter by thy power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield!
    12: For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies which they utter,
    13: consume them in wrath, consume them till they are no more, that men may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth. [Selah]
    14: Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
    15: They roam about for food, and growl if they do not get their fill.
    16: But I will sing of thy might; I will sing aloud of thy steadfast love in the morning. For thou hast been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress.
    17: O my Strength, I will sing praises to thee, for thou, O God, art my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love.

  Chapter 60.

    1: O God, thou hast rejected us, broken our defenses; thou hast been angry; oh, restore us.
    2: Thou hast made the land to quake, thou hast rent it open; repair its breaches, for it totters.
    3: Thou hast made thy people suffer hard things; thou hast given us wine to drink that made us reel.
    4: Thou hast set up a banner for those who fear thee, to rally to it from the bow. [Selah]
    5: That thy beloved may be delivered, give victory by thy right hand and answer us!
    6: God has spoken in his sanctuary: "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Vale of Succoth.
    7: Gilead is mine; Manas'seh is mine; E'phraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter.
    8: Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."
    9: Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
    10: Hast thou not rejected us, O God? Thou dost not go forth, O God, with our armies.
    11: O grant us help against the foe, for vain is the help of man!
    12: With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.

End of day 158.