Day 204:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: The Lord created man out of earth, and turned him back to it again.
    2: He gave to men few days, a limited time, but granted them authority over the things upon the earth.
    3: He endowed them with strength like his own, and made them in his own image.
    4: He placed the fear of them in all living beings, and granted them dominion over beasts and birds.
    5: He made for them tongue and eyes; he gave them ears and a mind for thinking.
    6: He filled them with knowledge and understanding, and showed them good and evil.
    7: He set his eye upon their hearts to show them the majesty of his works.
    8: And they will praise his holy name, to proclaim the grandeur of his works.
    9: He bestowed knowledge upon them, and allotted to them the law of life.
    10: He established with them an eternal covenant, and showed them his judgments.
    11: Their eyes saw his glorious majesty, and their ears heard the glory of his voice.
    12: And he said to them, "Beware of all unrighteousness." And he gave commandment to each of them concerning his neighbor.
    13: Their ways are always before him, they will not be hid from his eyes.
    14: He appointed a ruler for every nation, but Israel is the Lord's own portion.
    15: All their works are as the sun before him, and his eyes are continually upon their ways.
    16: Their iniquities are not hidden from him, and all their sins are before the Lord.
    17: A man's almsgiving is like a signet with the Lord and he will keep a person's kindness like the apple of his eye.
    18: Afterward he will arise and requite them, and he will bring their recompense on their heads.
    19: Yet to those who repent he grants a return, and he encourages those whose endurance is failing.
    20: Turn to the Lord and forsake your sins; pray in his presence and lessen your offenses.
    21: Return to the Most High and turn away from iniquity, and hate abominations intensely.
    22: Who will sing praises to the Most High in Hades, as do those who are alive and give thanks?
    23: From the dead, as from one who does not exist, thanksgiving has ceased; he who is alive and well sings the Lord's praises.
    24: How great is the mercy of the Lord, and his forgiveness for those who turn to him!
    25: For all things cannot be in men, since a son of man is not immortal.
    26: What is brighter than the sun? Yet its light fails. So flesh and blood devise evil.
    27: He marshals the host of the height of heaven; but all men are dust and ashes.

  Chapter 18.

    1: He who lives for ever created the whole universe;
    2: the Lord alone will be declared righteous.
    3: To none has he given power to proclaim his works; and who can search out his mighty deeds?
    4: Who can measure his majestic power? And who can fully recount his mercies?
    5: It is not possible to diminish or increase them, nor is it possible to trace the wonders of the Lord.
    6: When a man has finished, he is just beginning, and when he stops, he will be at a loss.
    7: What is man, and of what use is he? What is his good and what is his evil?
    8: The number of a man's days is great if he reaches a hundred years.
    9: Like a drop of water from the sea and a grain of sand so are a few years in the day of eternity.
    10: Therefore the Lord is patient with them and pours out his mercy upon them.
    11: He sees and recognizes that their end will be evil; therefore he grants them forgiveness in abundance.
    12: The compassion of man is for his neighbor, but the compassion of the Lord is for all living beings. He rebukes and trains and teaches them, and turns them back, as a shepherd his flock.
    13: He has compassion on those who accept his discipline and who are eager for his judgments.
    14: My son, do not mix reproach with your good deeds, nor cause grief by your words when you present a gift.
    15: Does not the dew assuage the scorching heat? So a word is better than a gift.
    16: Indeed, does not a word surpass a good gift? Both are to be found in a gracious man.
    17: A fool is ungracious and abusive, and the gift of a grudging man makes the eyes dim.
    18: Before you speak, learn, and before you fall ill, take care of your health.
    19: Before judgment, examine yourself, and in the hour of visitation you will find forgiveness.
    20: Before falling ill, humble yourself, and when you are on the point of sinning, turn back.
    21: Let nothing hinder you from paying a vow promptly, and do not wait until death to be released from it.
    22: Before making a vow, prepare yourself; and do not be like a man who tempts the Lord.
    23: Think of his wrath on the day of death, and of the moment of vengeance when he turns away his face.
    24: In the time of plenty think of the time of hunger; in the days of wealth think of poverty and need.
    25: From morning to evening conditions change, and all things move swiftly before the Lord.
    26: A wise man is cautious in everything, and in days of sin he guards against wrongdoing.
    27: Every intelligent man knows wisdom, and he praises the one who finds her.
    28: Those who understand sayings become skilled themselves, and pour forth apt proverbs.
    29: Do not follow your base desires, but restrain your appetites.
    30: If you allow your soul to take pleasure in base desire, it will make you the laughingstock of your enemies.
    31: Do not revel in great luxury, lest you become impoverished by its expense.
    32: Do not become a beggar by feasting with borrowed money, when you have nothing in your purse.

  Chapter 19.

    1: A workman who is a drunkard will not become rich; he who despises small things will fail little by little.
    2: Wine and women lead intelligent men astray, and the man who consorts with harlots is very reckless.
    3: Decay and worms will inherit him, and the reckless soul will be snatched away.
    4: One who trusts others too quickly is lightminded, and one who sins does wrong to himself.
    5: One who rejoices in wickedness will be condemned,
    6: and for one who hates gossip evil is lessened.
    7: Never repeat a conversation, and you will lose nothing at all.
    8: With friend or foe do not report it, and unless it would be a sin for you, do not disclose it;
    9: for some one has heard you and watched you, and when the time comes he will hate you.
    10: Have you heard a word? Let it die with you. Be brave! It will not make you burst!
    11: With such a word a fool will suffer pangs like a woman in labor with a child.
    12: Like an arrow stuck in the flesh of the thigh, so is a word inside a fool.
    13: Question a friend, perhaps he did not do it; but if he did anything, so that he may do it no more.
    14: Question a neighbor, perhaps he did not say it; but if he said it, so that he may not say it again.
    15: Question a friend, for often it is slander; so do not believe everything you hear.
    16: A person may make a slip without intending it. Who has never sinned with his tongue?
    17: Question your neighbor before you threaten him; and let the law of the Most High take its course.
    18: All wisdom is the fear of the Lord, and in all wisdom there is the fulfilment of the law.
    19: But the knowledge of wickedness is not wisdom, nor is there prudence where sinners take counsel.
    20: There is a cleverness which is abominable, but there is a fool who merely lacks wisdom.
    21: Better is the God-fearing man who lacks intelligence, than the highly prudent man who transgresses the law.
    22: There is a cleverness which is scrupulous but unjust, and there are people who distort kindness to gain a verdict.
    23: There is a rascal bowed down in mourning, but inwardly he is full of deceit.
    24: He hides his face and pretends not to hear; but where no one notices, he will forestall you.
    25: And if by lack of strength he is prevented from sinning, he will do evil when he finds an opportunity.
    26: A man is known by his appearance, and a sensible man is known by his face, when you meet him.
    27: A man's attire and open-mouthed laughter, and a man's manner of walking, show what he is.

  Chapter 20.

    1: There is a reproof which is not timely; and there is a man who keeps silent but is wise.
    2: How much better it is to reprove than to stay angry! And the one who confesses his fault will be kept from loss.
    3: Like a eunuch's desire to violate a maiden is a man who executes judgments by violence.
    4: There is one who by keeping silent is found wise, while another is detested for being too talkative.
    5: There is one who keeps silent because he has no answer, while another keeps silent because he knows when to speak.
    6: A wise man will be silent until the right moment, but a braggart and fool goes beyond the right moment.
    7: Whoever uses too many words will be loathed, and whoever usurps the right to speak will be hated.
    8: There may be good fortune for a man in adversity, and a windfall may result in a loss.
    9: There is a gift that profits you nothing, and there is a gift that brings a double return.
    10: There are losses because of glory, and there are men who have raised their heads from humble circumstances.
    11: There is a man who buys much for a little, but pays for it seven times over.
    12: The wise man makes himself beloved through his words, but the courtesies of fools are wasted.
    13: A fool's gift will profit you nothing, for he has many eyes instead of one.
    14: He gives little and upbraids much, he opens his mouth like a herald; today he lends and tomorrow he asks it back; such a one is a hateful man.
    15: A fool will say, "I have no friend, and there is no gratitude for my good deeds; those who eat my bread speak unkindly."
    16: How many will ridicule him, and how often!
    17: A slip on the pavement is better than a slip of the tongue; so the downfall of the wicked will occur speedily.
    18: An ungracious man is like a story told at the wrong time, which is continually on the lips of the ignorant.
    19: A proverb from a fool's lips will be rejected, for he does not tell it at its proper time.
    20: A man may be prevented from sinning by his poverty, so when he rests he feels no remorse.
    21: A man may lose his life through shame, or lose it because of his foolish look.
    22: A man may for shame make promises to a friend, and needlessly make him an enemy.
    23: A lie is an ugly blot on a man; it is continually on the lips of the ignorant.
    24: A thief is preferable to a habitual liar, but the lot of both is ruin.
    25: The disposition of a liar brings disgrace, and his shame is ever with him.
    26: He who speaks wisely will advance himself, and a sensible man will please great men.
    27: Whoever cultivates the soil will heap up his harvest, and whoever pleases great men will atone for injustice.
    28: Presents and gifts blind the eyes of the wise; like a muzzle on the mouth they avert reproofs.
    29: Hidden wisdom and unseen treasure, what advantage is there in either of them?
    30: Better is the man who hides his folly than the man who hides his wisdom.

End of day 204.