Day 252:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and preach against the sanctuaries; prophesy against the land of Israel
    3: and say to the land of Israel, Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am against you, and will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off from you both righteous and wicked.
    4: Because I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked, therefore my sword shall go out of its sheath against all flesh from south to north;
    5: and all flesh shall know that I the LORD have drawn my sword out of its sheath; it shall not be sheathed again.
    6: Sigh therefore, son of man; sigh with breaking heart and bitter grief before their eyes.
    7: And when they say to you, `Why do you sigh?' you shall say, `Because of the tidings. When it comes, every heart will melt and all hands will be feeble, every spirit will faint and all knees will be weak as water. Behold, it comes and it will be fulfilled,'" says the Lord GOD.
    8: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    9: "Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord, Say: A sword, a sword is sharpened and also polished,
    10: sharpened for slaughter, polished to flash like lightning! Or do we make mirth? You have despised the rod, my son, with everything of wood.
    11: So the sword is given to be polished, that it may be handled; it is sharpened and polished to be given into the hand of the slayer.
    12: Cry and wail, son of man, for it is against my people; it is against all the princes of Israel; they are delivered over to the sword with my people. Smite therefore upon your thigh.
    13: For it will not be a testing -- what could it do if you despise the rod?" says the Lord GOD.
    14: "Prophesy therefore, son of man; clap your hands and let the sword come down twice, yea thrice, the sword for those to be slain; it is the sword for the great slaughter, which encompasses them,
    15: that their hearts may melt, and many fall at all their gates. I have given the glittering sword; ah! it is made like lightning, it is polished for slaughter.
    16: Cut sharply to right and left where your edge is directed.
    17: I also will clap my hands, and I will satisfy my fury; I the LORD have spoken."
    18: The word of the LORD came to me again:
    19: "Son of man, mark two ways for the sword of the king of Babylon to come; both of them shall come forth from the same land. And make a signpost, make it at the head of the way to a city;
    20: mark a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the Ammonites and to Judah and to Jerusalem the fortified.
    21: For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination; he shakes the arrows, he consults the teraphim, he looks at the liver.
    22: Into his right hand comes the lot for Jerusalem, to open the mouth with a cry, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build siege towers.
    23: But to them it will seem like a false divination; they have sworn solemn oaths; but he brings their guilt to remembrance, that they may be captured.
    24: "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have made your guilt to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear -- because you have come to remembrance, you shall be taken in them.
    25: And you, O unhallowed wicked one, prince of Israel, whose day has come, the time of your final punishment,
    26: thus says the Lord GOD: Remove the turban, and take off the crown; things shall not remain as they are; exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high.
    27: A ruin, ruin, ruin I will make it; there shall not be even a trace of it until he comes whose right it is; and to him I will give it.
    28: "And you, son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; say, A sword, a sword is drawn for the slaughter, it is polished to glitter and to flash like lightning --
    29: while they see for you false visions, while they divine lies for you -- to be laid on the necks of the unhallowed wicked, whose day has come, the time of their final punishment.
    30: Return it to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin, I will judge you.
    31: And I will pour out my indignation upon you; I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath; and I will deliver you into the hands of brutal men, skilful to destroy.
    32: You shall be fuel for the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; you shall be no more remembered; for I the LORD have spoken."

  Chapter 22.

    1: Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
    2: "And you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Then declare to her all her abominable deeds.
    3: You shall say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A city that sheds blood in the midst of her, that her time may come, and that makes idols to defile herself!
    4: You have become guilty by the blood which you have shed, and defiled by the idols which you have made; and you have brought your day near, the appointed time of your years has come. Therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations, and a mocking to all the countries.
    5: Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you, you infamous one, full of tumult.
    6: "Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding blood.
    7: Father and mother are treated with contempt in you; the sojourner suffers extortion in your midst; the fatherless and the widow are wronged in you.
    8: You have despised my holy things, and profaned my sabbaths.
    9: There are men in you who slander to shed blood, and men in you who eat upon the mountains; men commit lewdness in your midst.
    10: In you men uncover their fathers' nakedness; in you they humble women who are unclean in their impurity.
    11: One commits abomination with his neighbor's wife; another lewdly defiles his daughter-in-law; another in you defiles his sister, his father's daughter.
    12: In you men take bribes to shed blood; you take interest and increase and make gain of your neighbors by extortion; and you have forgotten me, says the Lord GOD.
    13: "Behold, therefore, I strike my hands together at the dishonest gain which you have made, and at the blood which has been in the midst of you.
    14: Can your courage endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with you? I the LORD have spoken, and I will do it.
    15: I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you through the countries, and I will consume your filthiness out of you.
    16: And I shall be profaned through you in the sight of the nations; and you shall know that I am the LORD."
    17: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    18: "Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me; all of them, silver and bronze and tin and iron and lead in the furnace, have become dross.
    19: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have all become dross, therefore, behold, I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.
    20: As men gather silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into a furnace, to blow the fire upon it in order to melt it; so I will gather you in my anger and in my wrath, and I will put you in and melt you.
    21: I will gather you and blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it.
    22: As silver is melted in a furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it; and you shall know that I the LORD have poured out my wrath upon you."
    23: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    24: "Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed, or rained upon in the day of indignation.
    25: Her princes in the midst of her are like a roaring lion tearing the prey; they have devoured human lives; they have taken treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in the midst of her.
    26: Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things; they have made no distinction between the holy and the common, neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have disregarded my sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them.
    27: Her princes in the midst of her are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain.
    28: And her prophets have daubed for them with whitewash, seeing false visions and divining lies for them, saying, `Thus says the Lord GOD,' when the LORD has not spoken.
    29: The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery; they have oppressed the poor and needy, and have extorted from the sojourner without redress.
    30: And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it; but I found none.
    31: Therefore I have poured out my indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath; their way have I requited upon their heads, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 23.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother;
    3: they played the harlot in Egypt; they played the harlot in their youth; there their breasts were pressed and their virgin bosoms handled.
    4: Oho'lah was the name of the elder and Ohol'ibah the name of her sister. They became mine, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Oho'lah is Sama'ria, and Ohol'ibah is Jerusalem.
    5: "Oho'lah played the harlot while she was mine; and she doted on her lovers the Assyrians,
    6: warriors clothed in purple, governors and commanders, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on horses.
    7: She bestowed her harlotries upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them; and she defiled herself with all the idols of every one on whom she doted.
    8: She did not give up her harlotry which she had practiced since her days in Egypt; for in her youth men had lain with her and handled her virgin bosom and poured out their lust upon her.
    9: Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.
    10: These uncovered her nakedness; they seized her sons and her daughters; and her they slew with the sword; and she became a byword among women, when judgment had been executed upon her.
    11: "Her sister Ohol'ibah saw this, yet she was more corrupt than she in her doting and in her harlotry, which was worse than that of her sister.
    12: She doted upon the Assyrians, governors and commanders, warriors clothed in full armor, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.
    13: And I saw that she was defiled; they both took the same way.
    14: But she carried her harlotry further; she saw men portrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chalde'ans portrayed in vermilion,
    15: girded with belts on their loins, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them looking like officers, a picture of Babylonians whose native land was Chalde'a.
    16: When she saw them she doted upon them, and sent messengers to them in Chalde'a.
    17: And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their lust; and after she was polluted by them, she turned from them in disgust.
    18: When she carried on her harlotry so openly and flaunted her nakedness, I turned in disgust from her, as I had turned from her sister.
    19: Yet she increased her harlotry, remembering the days of her youth, when she played the harlot in the land of Egypt
    20: and doted upon her paramours there, whose members were like those of asses, and whose issue was like that of horses.
    21: Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom and pressed your young breasts."
    22: Therefore, O Ohol'ibah, thus says the Lord GOD: "Behold, I will rouse against you your lovers from whom you turned in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every side:
    23: the Babylonians and all the Chalde'ans, Pekod and Sho'a and Ko'a, and all the Assyrians with them, desirable young men, governors and commanders all of them, officers and warriors, all of them riding on horses.
    24: And they shall come against you from the north with chariots and wagons and a host of peoples; they shall set themselves against you on every side with buckler, shield, and helmet, and I will commit the judgment to them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments.
    25: And I will direct my indignation against you, that they may deal with you in fury. They shall cut off your nose and your ears, and your survivors shall fall by the sword. They shall seize your sons and your daughters, and your survivors shall be devoured by fire.
    26: They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your fine jewels.
    27: Thus I will put an end to your lewdness and your harlotry brought from the land of Egypt; so that you shall not lift up your eyes to the Egyptians or remember them any more.
    28: For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into the hands of those from whom you turned in disgust;
    29: and they shall deal with you in hatred, and take away all the fruit of your labor, and leave you naked and bare, and the nakedness of your harlotry shall be uncovered. Your lewdness and your harlotry
    30: have brought this upon you, because you played the harlot with the nations, and polluted yourself with their idols.
    31: You have gone the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.
    32: Thus says the Lord GOD: "You shall drink your sister's cup which is deep and large; you shall be laughed at and held in derision, for it contains much;
    33: you will be filled with drunkenness and sorrow. A cup of horror and desolation, is the cup of your sister Sama'ria;
    34: you shall drink it and drain it out, and pluck out your hair, and tear your breasts; for I have spoken, says the Lord GOD.
    35: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, therefore bear the consequences of your lewdness and harlotry."
    36: The LORD said to me: "Son of man, will you judge Oho'lah and Ohol'ibah? Then declare to them their abominable deeds.
    37: For they have committed adultery, and blood is upon their hands; with their idols they have committed adultery; and they have even offered up to them for food the sons whom they had borne to me.
    38: Moreover this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day and profaned my sabbaths.
    39: For when they had slaughtered their children in sacrifice to their idols, on the same day they came into my sanctuary to profane it. And lo, this is what they did in my house.
    40: They even sent for men to come from far, to whom a messenger was sent, and lo, they came. For them you bathed yourself, painted your eyes, and decked yourself with ornaments;
    41: you sat upon a stately couch, with a table spread before it on which you had placed my incense and my oil.
    42: The sound of a carefree multitude was with her; and with men of the common sort drunkards were brought from the wilderness; and they put bracelets upon the hands of the women, and beautiful crowns upon their heads.
    43: "Then I said, Do not men now commit adultery when they practice harlotry with her?
    44: For they have gone in to her, as men go in to a harlot. Thus they went in to Oho'lah and to Ohol'ibah to commit lewdness.
    45: But righteous men shall pass judgment on them with the sentence of adulteresses, and with the sentence of women that shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is upon their hands."
    46: For thus says the Lord GOD: "Bring up a host against them, and make them an object of terror and a spoil.
    47: And the host shall stone them and dispatch them with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses.
    48: Thus will I put an end to lewdness in the land, that all women may take warning and not commit lewdness as you have done.
    49: And your lewdness shall be requited upon you, and you shall bear the penalty for your sinful idolatry; and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 24.

    1: In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day.
    3: And utter an allegory to the rebellious house and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Set on the pot, set it on, pour in water also;
    4: put in it the pieces of flesh, all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with choice bones.
    5: Take the choicest one of the flock, pile the logs under it; boil its pieces, seethe also its bones in it.
    6: "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose rust is in it, and whose rust has not gone out of it! Take out of it piece after piece, without making any choice.
    7: For the blood she has shed is still in the midst of her; she put it on the bare rock, she did not pour it upon the ground to cover it with dust.
    8: To rouse my wrath, to take vengeance, I have set on the bare rock the blood she has shed, that it may not be covered.
    9: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great.
    10: Heap on the logs, kindle the fire, boil well the flesh, and empty out the broth, and let the bones be burned up.
    11: Then set it empty upon the coals, that it may become hot, and its copper may burn, that its filthiness may be melted in it, its rust consumed.
    12: In vain I have wearied myself; its thick rust does not go out of it by fire.
    13: Its rust is your filthy lewdness. Because I would have cleansed you and you were not cleansed from your filthiness, you shall not be cleansed any more till I have satisfied my fury upon you.
    14: I the LORD have spoken; it shall come to pass, I will do it; I will not go back, I will not spare, I will not repent; according to your ways and your doings I will judge you, says the Lord GOD."
    15: Also the word of the LORD came to me:
    16: "Son of man, behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke; yet you shall not mourn or weep nor shall your tears run down.
    17: Sigh, but not aloud; make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your turban, and put your shoes on your feet; do not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of mourners."
    18: So I spoke to the people in the morning, and at evening my wife died. And on the next morning I did as I was commanded.
    19: And the people said to me, "Will you not tell us what these things mean for us, that you are acting thus?"
    20: Then I said to them, "The word of the LORD came to me:
    21: `Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the delight of your eyes, and the desire of your soul; and your sons and your daughters whom you left behind shall fall by the sword.
    22: And you shall do as I have done; you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of mourners.
    23: Your turbans shall be on your heads and your shoes on your feet; you shall not mourn or weep, but you shall pine away in your iniquities and groan to one another.
    24: Thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign; according to all that he has done you shall do. When this comes, then you will know that I am the Lord GOD.'
    25: "And you, son of man, on the day when I take from them their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes and their heart's desire, and also their sons and daughters,
    26: on that day a fugitive will come to you to report to you the news.
    27: On that day your mouth will be opened to the fugitive, and you shall speak and be no longer dumb. So you will be a sign to them; and they will know that I am the LORD."

End of day 252.