Day 327:

Reading Galatians, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: For freedom Christ has set us free; stand fast therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery.
    2: Now I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you.
    3: I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is bound to keep the whole law.
    4: You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace.
    5: For through the Spirit, by faith, we wait for the hope of righteousness.
    6: For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is of any avail, but faith working through love.
    7: You were running well; who hindered you from obeying the truth?
    8: This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
    9: A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
    10: I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine; and he who is troubling you will bear his judgment, whoever he is.
    11: But if I, brethren, still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In that case the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.
    12: I wish those who unsettle you would mutilate themselves!
    13: For you were called to freedom, brethren; only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love be servants of one another.
    14: For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
    15: But if you bite and devour one another take heed that you are not consumed by one another.
    16: But I say, walk by the Spirit, and do not gratify the desires of the flesh.
    17: For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh; for these are opposed to each other, to prevent you from doing what you would.
    18: But if you are led by the Spirit you are not under the law.
    19: Now the works of the flesh are plain: fornication, impurity, licentiousness,
    20: idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, anger, selfishness, dissension, party spirit,
    21: envy, drunkenness, carousing, and the like. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
    22: But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
    23: gentleness, self-control; against such there is no law.
    24: And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
    25: If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
    26: Let us have no self-conceit, no provoking of one another, no envy of one another.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Brethren, if a man is overtaken in any trespass, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Look to yourself, lest you too be tempted.
    2: Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.
    3: For if any one thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
    4: But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor.
    5: For each man will have to bear his own load.
    6: Let him who is taught the word share all good things with him who teaches.
    7: Do not be deceived; God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.
    8: For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption; but he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
    9: And let us not grow weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap, if we do not lose heart.
    10: So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all men, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.
    11: See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand.
    12: It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh that would compel you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
    13: For even those who receive circumcision do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh.
    14: But far be it from me to glory except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
    15: For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
    16: Peace and mercy be upon all who walk by this rule, upon the Israel of God.
    17: Henceforth let no man trouble me; for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus.
    18: The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen.

End of day 327.