Day 143:

Reading Job, chapters ['41', '42']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: "Can you draw out Levi'athan with a fishhook, or press down his tongue with a cord?
    2: Can you put a rope in his nose, or pierce his jaw with a hook?
    3: Will he make many supplications to you? Will he speak to you soft words?
    4: Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant for ever?
    5: Will you play with him as with a bird, or will you put him on leash for your maidens?
    6: Will traders bargain over him? Will they divide him up among the merchants?
    7: Can you fill his skin with harpoons, or his head with fishing spears?
    8: Lay hands on him; think of the battle; you will not do it again!
    9: Behold, the hope of a man is disappointed; he is laid low even at the sight of him.
    10: No one is so fierce that he dares to stir him up. Who then is he that can stand before me?
    11: Who has given to me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine.
    12: "I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, or his mighty strength, or his goodly frame.
    13: Who can strip off his outer garment? Who can penetrate his double coat of mail?
    14: Who can open the doors of his face? Round about his teeth is terror.
    15: His back is made of rows of shields, shut up closely as with a seal.
    16: One is so near to another that no air can come between them.
    17: They are joined one to another; they clasp each other and cannot be separated.
    18: His sneezings flash forth light, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the dawn.
    19: Out of his mouth go flaming torches; sparks of fire leap forth.
    20: Out of his nostrils comes forth smoke, as from a boiling pot and burning rushes.
    21: His breath kindles coals, and a flame comes forth from his mouth.
    22: In his neck abides strength, and terror dances before him.
    23: The folds of his flesh cleave together, firmly cast upon him and immovable.
    24: His heart is hard as a stone, hard as the nether millstone.
    25: When he raises himself up the mighty are afraid; at the crashing they are beside themselves.
    26: Though the sword reaches him, it does not avail; nor the spear, the dart, or the javelin.
    27: He counts iron as straw, and bronze as rotten wood.
    28: The arrow cannot make him flee; for him slingstones are turned to stubble.
    29: Clubs are counted as stubble; he laughs at the rattle of javelins.
    30: His underparts are like sharp potsherds; he spreads himself like a threshing sledge on the mire.
    31: He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
    32: Behind him he leaves a shining wake; one would think the deep to be hoary.
    33: Upon earth there is not his like, a creature without fear.
    34: He beholds everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of pride."

  Chapter 42.

    1: Then Job answered the LORD:
    2: "I know that thou canst do all things, and that no purpose of thine can be thwarted.
    3: `Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge?' Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know.
    4: `Hear, and I will speak; I will question you, and you declare to me.'
    5: I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees thee;
    6: therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes."
    7: After the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eli'phaz the Te'manite: "My wrath is kindled against you and against your two friends; for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has.
    8: Now therefore take seven bulls and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you, for I will accept his prayer not to deal with you according to your folly; for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has."
    9: So Eli'phaz the Te'manite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Na'amathite went and did what the LORD had told them; and the LORD accepted Job's prayer.
    10: And the LORD restored the fortunes of Job, when he had prayed for his friends; and the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.
    11: Then came to him all his brothers and sisters and all who had known him before, and ate bread with him in his house; and they showed him sympathy and comforted him for all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him; and each of them gave him a piece of money and a ring of gold.
    12: And the LORD blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning; and he had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
    13: He had also seven sons and three daughters.
    14: And he called the name of the first Jemi'mah; and the name of the second Kezi'ah; and the name of the third Ker'en-hap'puch.
    15: And in all the land there were no women so fair as Job's daughters; and their father gave them inheritance among their brothers.
    16: And after this Job lived a hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations.
    17: And Job died, an old man, and full of days.

End of day 143.