Day 129:

Reading 2-Maccabees, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The Jewish brethren in Jerusalem and those in the land of Judea, To their Jewish brethren in Egypt, Greeting, and good peace.
    2: May God do good to you, and may he remember his covenant with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, his faithful servants.
    3: May he give you all a heart to worship him and to do his will with a strong heart and a willing spirit.
    4: May he open your heart to his law and his commandments, and may he bring peace.
    5: May he hear your prayers and be reconciled to you, and may he not forsake you in time of evil.
    6: We are now praying for you here.
    7: In the reign of Demetrius, in the one hundred and sixty-ninth year, we Jews wrote to you, in the critical distress which came upon us in those years after Jason and his company revolted from the holy land and the kingdom
    8: and burned the gate and shed innocent blood. We besought the Lord and we were heard, and we offered sacrifice and cereal offering, and we lighted the lamps and we set out the loaves.
    9: And now see that you keep the feast of booths in the month of Chislev, in the one hundred and eighty-eighth year.
    10: Those in Jerusalem and those in Judea and the senate and Judas, To Aristobulus, who is of the family of the anointed priests, teacher of Ptolemy the king, and to the Jews in Egypt, Greeting, and good health.
    11: Having been saved by God out of grave dangers we thank him greatly for taking our side against the king.
    12: For he drove out those who fought against the holy city.
    13: For when the leader reached Persia with a force that seemed irresistible, they were cut to pieces in the temple of Nanea by a deception employed by the priests of Nanea.
    14: For under pretext of intending to marry her, Antiochus came to the place together with his friends, to secure most of its treasures as a dowry.
    15: When the priests of the temple of Nanea had set out the treasures and Antiochus had come with a few men inside the wall of the sacred precinct, they closed the temple as soon as he entered it.
    16: Opening the secret door in the ceiling, they threw stones and struck down the leader and his men, and dismembered them and cut off their heads and threw them to the people outside.
    17: Blessed in every way be our God, who has brought judgment upon those who have behaved impiously.
    18: Since on the twenty-fifth day of Chislev we shall celebrate the purification of the temple, we thought it necessary to notify you, in order that you also may celebrate the feast of booths and the feast of the fire given when Nehemiah, who built the temple and the altar, offered sacrifices.
    19: For when our fathers were being led captive to Persia, the pious priests of that time took some of the fire of the altar and secretly hid it in the hollow of a dry cistern, where they took such precautions that the place was unknown to any one.
    20: But after many years had passed, when it pleased God, Nehemiah, having been commissioned by the king of Persia, sent the descendants of the priests who had hidden the fire to get it. And when they reported to us that they had not found fire but thick liquid, he ordered them to dip it out and bring it.
    21: And when the materials for the sacrifices were presented, Nehemiah ordered the priests to sprinkle the liquid on the wood and what was laid upon it.
    22: When this was done and some time had passed and the sun, which had been clouded over, shone out, a great fire blazed up, so that all marveled.
    23: And while the sacrifice was being consumed, the priests offered prayer -- the priests and every one. Jonathan led, and the rest responded, as did Nehemiah.
    24: The prayer was to this effect: "O Lord, Lord God, Creator of all things, who art awe-inspiring and strong and just and merciful, who alone art King and art kind,
    25: who alone art bountiful, who alone art just and almighty and eternal, who dost rescue Israel from every evil, who didst choose the fathers and consecrate them,
    26: accept this sacrifice on behalf of all thy people Israel and preserve thy portion and make it holy.
    27: Gather together our scattered people, set free those who are slaves among the Gentiles, look upon those who are rejected and despised, and let the Gentiles know that thou art our God.
    28: Afflict those who oppress and are insolent with pride.
    29: Plant thy people in thy holy place, as Moses said."
    30: Then the priests sang the hymns.
    31: And when the materials of the sacrifice were consumed, Nehemiah ordered that the liquid that was left should be poured upon large stones.
    32: When this was done, a flame blazed up; but when the light from the altar shone back, it went out.
    33: When this matter became known, and it was reported to the king of the Persians that, in the place where the exiled priests had hidden the fire, the liquid had appeared with which Nehemiah and his associates had burned the materials of the sacrifice,
    34: the king investigated the matter, and enclosed the place and made it sacred.
    35: And with those persons whom the king favored he exchanged many excellent gifts.
    36: Nehemiah and his associates called this "nephthar," which means purification, but by most people it is called naphtha.

  Chapter 2.

    1: One finds in the records that Jeremiah the prophet ordered those who were being deported to take some of the fire, as has been told,
    2: and that the prophet after giving them the law instructed those who were being deported not to forget the commandments of the Lord, nor to be led astray in their thoughts upon seeing the gold and silver statues and their adornment.
    3: And with other similar words he exhorted them that the law should not depart from their hearts.
    4: It was also in the writing that the prophet, having received an oracle, ordered that the tent and the ark should follow with him, and that he went out to the mountain where Moses had gone up and had seen the inheritance of God.
    5: And Jeremiah came and found a cave, and he brought there the tent and the ark and the altar of incense, and he sealed up the entrance.
    6: Some of those who followed him came up to mark the way, but could not find it.
    7: When Jeremiah learned of it, he rebuked them and declared: "The place shall be unknown until God gathers his people together again and shows his mercy.
    8: And then the Lord will disclose these things, and the glory of the Lord and the cloud will appear, as they were shown in the case of Moses, and as Solomon asked that the place should be specially consecrated."
    9: It was also made clear that being possessed of wisdom Solomon offered sacrifice for the dedication and completion of the temple.
    10: Just as Moses prayed to the Lord, and fire came down from heaven and devoured the sacrifices, so also Solomon prayed, and the fire came down and consumed the whole burnt offerings.
    11: And Moses said, "They were consumed because the sin offering had not been eaten."
    12: Likewise Solomon also kept the eight days.
    13: The same things are reported in the records and in the memoirs of Nehemiah, and also that he founded a library and collected the books about the kings and prophets, and the writings of David, and letters of kings about votive offerings.
    14: In the same way Judas also collected all the books that had been lost on account of the war which had come upon us, and they are in our possession.
    15: So if you have need of them, send people to get them for you.
    16: Since, therefore, we are about to celebrate the purification, we write to you. Will you therefore please keep the days?
    17: It is God who has saved all his people, and has returned the inheritance to all, and the kingship and priesthood and consecration,
    18: as he promised through the law. For we have hope in God that he will soon have mercy upon us and will gather us from everywhere under heaven into his holy place, for he has rescued us from great evils and has purified the place.
    19: The story of Judas Maccabeus and his brothers, and the purification of the great temple, and the dedication of the altar,
    20: and further the wars against Antiochus Epiphanes and his son Eupator,
    21: and the appearances which came from heaven to those who strove zealously on behalf of Judaism, so that though few in number they seized the whole land and pursued the barbarian hordes,
    22: and recovered the temple famous throughout the world and freed the city and restored the laws that were about to be abolished, while the Lord with great kindness became gracious to them --
    23: all this, which has been set forth by Jason of Cyrene in five volumes, we shall attempt to condense into a single book.
    24: For considering the flood of numbers involved and the difficulty there is for those who wish to enter upon the narratives of history because of the mass of material,
    25: we have aimed to please those who wish to read, to make it easy for those who are inclined to memorize, and to profit all readers.
    26: For us who have undertaken the toil of abbreviating, it is no light matter but calls for sweat and loss of sleep,
    27: just as it is not easy for one who prepares a banquet and seeks the benefit of others. However, to secure the gratitude of many we will gladly endure the uncomfortable toil,
    28: leaving the responsibility for exact details to the compiler, while devoting our effort to arriving at the outlines of the condensation.
    29: For as the master builder of a new house must be concerned with the whole construction, while the one who undertakes its painting and decoration has to consider only what is suitable for its adornment, such in my judgment is the case with us.
    30: It is the duty of the original historian to occupy the ground and to discuss matters from every side and to take trouble with details,
    31: but the one who recasts the narrative should be allowed to strive for brevity of expression and to forego exhaustive treatment.
    32: At this point therefore let us begin our narrative, adding only so much to what has already been said; for it is foolish to lengthen the preface while cutting short the history itself.

  Chapter 3.

    1: While the holy city was inhabited in unbroken peace and the laws were very well observed because of the piety of the high priest Onias and his hatred of wickedness,
    2: it came about that the kings themselves honored the place and glorified the temple with the finest presents,
    3: so that even Seleucus, the king of Asia, defrayed from his own revenues all the expenses connected with the service of the sacrifices.
    4: But a man named Simon, of the tribe of Benjamin, who had been made captain of the temple, had a disagreement with the high priest about the administration of the city market;
    5: and when he could not prevail over Onias he went to Apollonius of Tarsus, who at that time was governor of Coelesyria and Phoenicia.
    6: He reported to him that the treasury in Jerusalem was full of untold sums of money, so that the amount of the funds could not be reckoned, and that they did not belong to the account of the sacrifices, but that it was possible for them to fall under the control of the king.
    7: When Apollonius met the king, he told him of the money about which he had been informed. The king chose Heliodorus, who was in charge of his affairs, and sent him with commands to effect the removal of the aforesaid money.
    8: Heliodorus at once set out on his journey, ostensibly to make a tour of inspection of the cities of Coelesyria and Phoenicia, but in fact to carry out the king's purpose.
    9: When he had arrived at Jerusalem and had been kindly welcomed by the high priest of the city, he told about the disclosure that had been made and stated why he had come, and he inquired whether this really was the situation.
    10: The high priest explained that there were some deposits belonging to widows and orphans,
    11: and also some money of Hyrcanus, son of Tobias, a man of very prominent position, and that it totaled in all four hundred talents of silver and two hundred of gold. To such an extent the impious Simon had misrepresented the facts.
    12: And he said that it was utterly impossible that wrong should be done to those people who had trusted in the holiness of the place and in the sanctity and inviolability of the temple which is honored throughout the whole world.
    13: But Heliodorus, because of the king's commands which he had, said that this money must in any case be confiscated for the king's treasury.
    14: So he set a day and went in to direct the inspection of these funds. There was no little distress throughout the whole city.
    15: The priests prostrated themselves before the altar in their priestly garments and called toward heaven upon him who had given the law about deposits, that he should keep them safe for those who had deposited them.
    16: To see the appearance of the high priest was to be wounded at heart, for his face and the change in his color disclosed the anguish of his soul.
    17: For terror and bodily trembling had come over the man, which plainly showed to those who looked at him the pain lodged in his heart.
    18: People also hurried out of their houses in crowds to make a general supplication because the holy place was about to be brought into contempt.
    19: Women, girded with sackcloth under their breasts, thronged the streets. Some of the maidens who were kept indoors ran together to the gates, and some to the walls, while others peered out of the windows.
    20: And holding up their hands to heaven, they all made entreaty.
    21: There was something pitiable in the prostration of the whole populace and the anxiety of the high priest in his great anguish.
    22: While they were calling upon the Almighty Lord that he would keep what had been entrusted safe and secure for those who had entrusted it,
    23: Heliodorus went on with what had been decided.
    24: But when he arrived at the treasury with his bodyguard, then and there the Sovereign of spirits and of all authority caused so great a manifestation that all who had been so bold as to accompany him were astounded by the power of God, and became faint with terror.
    25: For there appeared to them a magnificently caparisoned horse, with a rider of frightening mien, and it rushed furiously at Heliodorus and struck at him with its front hoofs. Its rider was seen to have armor and weapons of gold.
    26: Two young men also appeared to him, remarkably strong, gloriously beautiful and splendidly dressed, who stood on each side of him and scourged him continuously, inflicting many blows on him.
    27: When he suddenly fell to the ground and deep darkness came over him, his men took him up and put him on a stretcher
    28: and carried him away, this man who had just entered the aforesaid treasury with a great retinue and all his bodyguard but was now unable to help himself; and they recognized clearly the sovereign power of God.
    29: While he lay prostrate, speechless because of the divine intervention and deprived of any hope of recovery,
    30: they praised the Lord who had acted marvelously for his own place. And the temple, which a little while before was full of fear and disturbance, was filled with joy and gladness, now that the Almighty Lord had appeared.
    31: Quickly some of Heliodorus' friends asked Onias to call upon the Most High and to grant life to one who was lying quite at his last breath.
    32: And the high priest, fearing that the king might get the notion that some foul play had been perpetrated by the Jews with regard to Heliodorus, offered sacrifice for the man's recovery.
    33: While the high priest was making the offering of atonement, the same young men appeared again to Heliodorus dressed in the same clothing, and they stood and said, "Be very grateful to Onias the high priest, since for his sake the Lord has granted you your life.
    34: And see that you, who have been scourged by heaven, report to all men the majestic power of God." Having said this they vanished.
    35: Then Heliodorus offered sacrifice to the Lord and made very great vows to the Savior of his life, and having bidden Onias farewell, he marched off with his forces to the king.
    36: And he bore testimony to all men of the deeds of the supreme God, which he had seen with his own eyes.
    37: When the king asked Heliodorus what sort of person would be suitable to send on another mission to Jerusalem, he replied,
    38: "If you have any enemy or plotter against your government, send him there, for you will get him back thoroughly scourged, if he escapes at all, for there certainly is about the place some power of God.
    39: For he who has his dwelling in heaven watches over that place himself and brings it aid, and he strikes and destroys those who come to do it injury."
    40: This was the outcome of the episode of Heliodorus and the protection of the treasury.

  Chapter 4.

    1: The previously mentioned Simon, who had informed about the money against his own country, slandered Onias, saying that it was he who had incited Heliodorus and had been the real cause of the misfortune.
    2: He dared to designate as a plotter against the government the man who was the benefactor of the city, the protector of his fellow countrymen, and a zealot for the laws.
    3: When his hatred progressed to such a degree that even murders were committed by one of Simon's approved agents,
    4: Onias recognized that the rivalry was serious and that Apollonius, the son of Menestheus and governor of Coelesyria and Phoenicia, was intensifying the malice of Simon.
    5: So he betook himself to the king, not accusing his fellow citizens but having in view the welfare, both public and private, of all the people.
    6: For he saw that without the king's attention public affairs could not again reach a peaceful settlement, and that Simon would not stop his folly.
    7: When Seleucus died and Antiochus who was called Epiphanes succeeded to the kingdom, Jason the brother of Onias obtained the high priesthood by corruption,
    8: promising the king at an interview three hundred and sixty talents of silver and, from another source of revenue, eighty talents.
    9: In addition to this he promised to pay one hundred and fifty more if permission were given to establish by his authority a gymnasium and a body of youth for it, and to enrol the men of Jerusalem as citizens of Antioch.
    10: When the king assented and Jason came to office, he at once shifted his countrymen over to the Greek way of life.
    11: He set aside the existing royal concessions to the Jews, secured through John the father of Eupolemus, who went on the mission to establish friendship and alliance with the Romans; and he destroyed the lawful ways of living and introduced new customs contrary to the law.
    12: For with alacrity he founded a gymnasium right under the citadel, and he induced the noblest of the young men to wear the Greek hat.
    13: There was such an extreme of Hellenization and increase in the adoption of foreign ways because of the surpassing wickedness of Jason, who was ungodly and no high priest,
    14: that the priests were no longer intent upon their service at the altar. Despising the sanctuary and neglecting the sacrifices, they hastened to take part in the unlawful proceedings in the wrestling arena after the call to the discus,
    15: disdaining the honors prized by their fathers and putting the highest value upon Greek forms of prestige.
    16: For this reason heavy disaster overtook them, and those whose ways of living they admired and wished to imitate completely became their enemies and punished them.
    17: For it is no light thing to show irreverence to the divine laws -- a fact which later events will make clear.
    18: When the quadrennial games were being held at Tyre and the king was present,
    19: the vile Jason sent envoys, chosen as being Antiochian citizens from Jerusalem, to carry three hundred silver drachmas for the sacrifice to Hercules. Those who carried the money, however, thought best not to use it for sacrifice, because that was inappropriate, but to expend it for another purpose.
    20: So this money was intended by the sender for the sacrifice to Hercules, but by the decision of its carriers it was applied to the construction of triremes.
    21: When Apollonius the son of Menestheus was sent to Egypt for the coronation of Philometor as king, Antiochus learned that Philometor had become hostile to his government, and he took measures for his own security. Therefore upon arriving at Joppa he proceeded to Jerusalem.
    22: He was welcomed magnificently by Jason and the city, and ushered in with a blaze of torches and with shouts. Then he marched into Phoenicia.
    23: After a period of three years Jason sent Menelaus, the brother of the previously mentioned Simon, to carry the money to the king and to complete the records of essential business.
    24: But he, when presented to the king, extolled him with an air of authority, and secured the high priesthood for himself, outbidding Jason by three hundred talents of silver.
    25: After receiving the king's orders he returned, possessing no qualification for the high priesthood, but having the hot temper of a cruel tyrant and the rage of a savage wild beast.
    26: So Jason, who after supplanting his own brother was supplanted by another man, was driven as a fugitive into the land of Ammon.
    27: And Menelaus held the office, but he did not pay regularly any of the money promised to the king.
    28: When Sostratus the captain of the citadel kept requesting payment, for the collection of the revenue was his responsibility, the two of them were summoned by the king on account of this issue.
    29: Menelaus left his own brother Lysimachus as deputy in the high priesthood, while Sostratus left Crates, the commander of the Cyprian troops.
    30: While such was the state of affairs, it happened that the people of Tarsus and of Mallus revolted because their cities had been given as a present to Antiochis, the king's concubine.
    31: So the king went hastily to settle the trouble, leaving Andronicus, a man of high rank, to act as his deputy.
    32: But Menelaus, thinking he had obtained a suitable opportunity, stole some of the gold vessels of the temple and gave them to Andronicus; other vessels, as it happened, he had sold to Tyre and the neighboring cities.
    33: When Onias became fully aware of these acts he publicly exposed them, having first withdrawn to a place of sanctuary at Daphne near Antioch.
    34: Therefore Menelaus, taking Andronicus aside, urged him to kill Onias. Andronicus came to Onias, and resorting to treachery offered him sworn pledges and gave him his right hand, and in spite of his suspicion persuaded Onias to come out from the place of sanctuary; then, with no regard for justice, he immediately put him out of the way.
    35: For this reason not only Jews, but many also of other nations, were grieved and displeased at the unjust murder of the man.
    36: When the king returned from the region of Cilicia, the Jews in the city appealed to him with regard to the unreasonable murder of Onias, and the Greeks shared their hatred of the crime.
    37: Therefore Antiochus was grieved at heart and filled with pity, and wept because of the moderation and good conduct of the deceased;
    38: and inflamed with anger, he immediately stripped off the purple robe from Andronicus, tore off his garments, and led him about the whole city to that very place where he had committed the outrage against Onias, and there he dispatched the bloodthirsty fellow. The Lord thus repaid him with the punishment he deserved.
    39: When many acts of sacrilege had been committed in the city by Lysimachus with the connivance of Menelaus, and when report of them had spread abroad, the populace gathered against Lysimachus, because many of the gold vessels had already been stolen.
    40: And since the crowds were becoming aroused and filled with anger, Lysimachus armed about three thousand men and launched an unjust attack, under the leadership of a certain Auranus, a man advanced in years and no less advanced in folly.
    41: But when the Jews became aware of Lysimachus' attack, some picked up stones, some blocks of wood, and others took handfuls of the ashes that were lying about, and threw them in wild confusion at Lysimachus and his men.
    42: As a result, they wounded many of them, and killed some, and put them all to flight; and the temple robber himself they killed close by the treasury.
    43: Charges were brought against Menelaus about this incident.
    44: When the king came to Tyre, three men sent by the senate presented the case before him.
    45: But Menelaus, already as good as beaten, promised a substantial bribe to Ptolemy son of Dorymenes to win over the king.
    46: Therefore Ptolemy, taking the king aside into a colonnade as if for refreshment, induced the king to change his mind.
    47: Menelaus, the cause of all the evil, he acquitted of the charges against him, while he sentenced to death those unfortunate men, who would have been freed uncondemned if they had pleaded even before Scythians.
    48: And so those who had spoken for the city and the villages and the holy vessels quickly suffered the unjust penalty.
    49: Therefore even the Tyrians, showing their hatred of the crime, provided magnificently for their funeral.
    50: But Menelaus, because of the cupidity of those in power, remained in office, growing in wickedness, having become the chief plotter against his fellow citizens.

End of day 129.