Day 288:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain apart.
    2: And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his garments became white as light.
    3: And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Eli'jah, talking with him.
    4: And Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, it is well that we are here; if you wish, I will make three booths here, one for you and one for Moses and one for Eli'jah."
    5: He was still speaking, when lo, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; listen to him."
    6: When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces, and were filled with awe.
    7: But Jesus came and touched them, saying, "Rise, and have no fear."
    8: And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.
    9: And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, "Tell no one the vision, until the Son of man is raised from the dead."
    10: And the disciples asked him, "Then why do the scribes say that first Eli'jah must come?"
    11: He replied, "Eli'jah does come, and he is to restore all things;
    12: but I tell you that Eli'jah has already come, and they did not know him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of man will suffer at their hands."
    13: Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist.
    14: And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and kneeling before him said,
    15: "Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and he suffers terribly; for often he falls into the fire, and often into the water.
    16: And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him."
    17: And Jesus answered, "O faithless and perverse generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me."
    18: And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was cured instantly.
    19: Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
    20: He said to them, "Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, `Move from here to there,' and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to you."
    21: As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of man is to be delivered into the hands of men,
    22: and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day." And they were greatly distressed.
    23: When they came to Caper'na-um, the collectors of the half-shekel tax went up to Peter and said, "Does not your teacher pay the tax?"
    24: He said, "Yes." And when he came home, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tribute? From their sons or from others?"
    25: And when he said, "From others," Jesus said to him, "Then the sons are free.
    26: However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel; take that and give it to them for me and for yourself."

  Chapter 18.

    1: At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?"
    2: And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them,
    3: and said, "Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
    4: Whoever humbles himself like this child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
    5: "Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me;
    6: but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened round his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.
    7: "Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the man by whom the temptation comes!
    8: And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away; it is better for you to enter life maimed or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.
    9: And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and throw it away; it is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire.
    10: "See that you do not despise one of these little ones; for I tell you that in heaven their angels always behold the face of my Father who is in heaven.
    11: What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?
    12: And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray.
    13: So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
    14: "If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.
    15: But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every word may be confirmed by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
    16: If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church; and if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.
    17: Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
    18: Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven.
    19: For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in the midst of them."
    20: Then Peter came up and said to him, "Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?"
    21: Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.
    22: "Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants.
    23: When he began the reckoning, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents;
    24: and as he could not pay, his lord ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made.
    25: So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, `Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.'
    26: And out of pity for him the lord of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
    27: But that same servant, as he went out, came upon one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and seizing him by the throat he said, `Pay what you owe.'
    28: So his fellow servant fell down and besought him, `Have patience with me, and I will pay you.'
    29: He refused and went and put him in prison till he should pay the debt.
    30: When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their lord all that had taken place.
    31: Then his lord summoned him and said to him, `You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you besought me;
    32: and should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?'
    33: And in anger his lord delivered him to the jailers, till he should pay all his debt.
    34: So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart."

  Chapter 19.

    1: Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan;
    2: and large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
    3: And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, "Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?"
    4: He answered, "Have you not read that he who made them from the beginning made them male and female,
    5: and said, `For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh'?
    6: So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder."
    7: They said to him, "Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce, and to put her away?"
    8: He said to them, "For your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so.
    9: And I say to you: whoever divorces his wife, except for unchastity, and marries another, commits adultery."
    10: The disciples said to him, "If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is not expedient to marry."
    11: But he said to them, "Not all men can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given.
    12: For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He who is able to receive this, let him receive it."
    13: Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people;
    14: but Jesus said, "Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them; for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven."
    15: And he laid his hands on them and went away.
    16: And behold, one came up to him, saying, "Teacher, what good deed must I do, to have eternal life?"
    17: And he said to him, "Why do you ask me about what is good? One there is who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments."
    18: He said to him, "Which?" And Jesus said, "You shall not kill, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,
    19: Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
    20: The young man said to him, "All these I have observed; what do I still lack?"
    21: Jesus said to him, "If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
    22: When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful; for he had great possessions.
    23: And Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly, I say to you, it will be hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
    24: Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God."
    25: When the disciples heard this they were greatly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?"
    26: But Jesus looked at them and said to them, "With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."
    27: Then Peter said in reply, "Lo, we have left everything and followed you. What then shall we have?"
    28: Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of man shall sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
    29: And every one who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands, for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold, and inherit eternal life.
    30: But many that are first will be last, and the last first.

  Chapter 20.

    1: "For the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
    2: After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
    3: And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the market place;
    4: and to them he said, `You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.' So they went.
    5: Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same.
    6: And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing; and he said to them, `Why do you stand here idle all day?'
    7: They said to him, `Because no one has hired us.' He said to them, `You go into the vineyard too.'
    8: And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his steward, `Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first.'
    9: And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius.
    10: Now when the first came, they thought they would receive more; but each of them also received a denarius.
    11: And on receiving it they grumbled at the householder,
    12: saying, `These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.'
    13: But he replied to one of them, `Friend, I am doing you no wrong; did you not agree with me for a denarius?
    14: Take what belongs to you, and go; I choose to give to this last as I give to you.
    15: Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity?'
    16: So the last will be first, and the first last."
    17: And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them,
    18: "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death,
    19: and deliver him to the Gentiles to be mocked and scourged and crucified, and he will be raised on the third day."
    20: Then the mother of the sons of Zeb'edee came up to him, with her sons, and kneeling before him she asked him for something.
    21: And he said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Command that these two sons of mine may sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom."
    22: But Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink?" They said to him, "We are able."
    23: He said to them, "You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father."
    24: And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers.
    25: But Jesus called them to him and said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them.
    26: It shall not be so among you; but whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
    27: and whoever would be first among you must be your slave;
    28: even as the Son of man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
    29: And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
    30: And behold, two blind men sitting by the roadside, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, "Have mercy on us, Son of David!"
    31: The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent; but they cried out the more, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
    32: And Jesus stopped and called them, saying, "What do you want me to do for you?"
    33: They said to him, "Lord, let our eyes be opened."
    34: And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they received their sight and followed him.

End of day 288.