Day 157:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['53', '54', '55', '56']:

  Chapter 53.

    1: The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none that does good.
    2: God looks down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there are any that are wise, that seek after God.
    3: They have all fallen away; they are all alike depraved; there is none that does good, no, not one.
    4: Have those who work evil no understanding, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon God?
    5: There they are, in great terror, in terror such as has not been! For God will scatter the bones of the ungodly; they will be put to shame, for God has rejected them.
    6: O that deliverance for Israel would come from Zion! When God restores the fortunes of his people, Jacob will rejoice and Israel be glad.

  Chapter 54.

    1: Save me, O God, by thy name, and vindicate me by thy might.
    2: Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.
    3: For insolent men have risen against me, ruthless men seek my life; they do not set God before them. [Selah]
    4: Behold, God is my helper; the Lord is the upholder of my life.
    5: He will requite my enemies with evil; in thy faithfulness put an end to them.
    6: With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to thee; I will give thanks to thy name, O LORD, for it is good.
    7: For thou hast delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies.

  Chapter 55.

    1: Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication!
    2: Attend to me, and answer me; I am overcome by my trouble. I am distraught
    3: by the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they bring trouble upon me, and in anger they cherish enmity against me.
    4: My heart is in anguish within me, the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
    5: Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me.
    6: And I say, "O that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest;
    7: yea, I would wander afar, I would lodge in the wilderness, [Selah]
    8: I would haste to find me a shelter from the raging wind and tempest."
    9: Destroy their plans, O Lord, confuse their tongues; for I see violence and strife in the city.
    10: Day and night they go around it on its walls; and mischief and trouble are within it,
    11: ruin is in its midst; oppression and fraud do not depart from its market place.
    12: It is not an enemy who taunts me -- then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me -- then I could hide from him.
    13: But it is you, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend.
    14: We used to hold sweet converse together; within God's house we walked in fellowship.
    15: Let death come upon them; let them go down to Sheol alive; let them go away in terror into their graves.
    16: But I call upon God; and the LORD will save me.
    17: Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he will hear my voice.
    18: He will deliver my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me.
    19: God will give ear, and humble them, he who is enthroned from of old; because they keep no law, and do not fear God. [Selah]
    20: My companion stretched out his hand against his friends, he violated his covenant.
    21: His speech was smoother than butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
    22: Cast your burden on the LORD, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved.
    23: But thou, O God, wilt cast them down into the lowest pit; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in thee.

  Chapter 56.

    1: Be gracious to me, O God, for men trample upon me; all day long foemen oppress me;
    2: my enemies trample upon me all day long, for many fight against me proudly.
    3: When I am afraid, I put my trust in thee.
    4: In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust without a fear. What can flesh do to me?
    5: All day long they seek to injure my cause; all their thoughts are against me for evil.
    6: They band themselves together, they lurk, they watch my steps. As they have waited for my life,
    7: so recompense them for their crime; in wrath cast down the peoples, O God!
    8: Thou hast kept count of my tossings; put thou my tears in thy bottle! Are they not in thy book?
    9: Then my enemies will be turned back in the day when I call. This I know, that God is for me.
    10: In God, whose word I praise, in the LORD, whose word I praise,
    11: in God I trust without a fear. What can man do to me?
    12: My vows to thee I must perform, O God; I will render thank offerings to thee.
    13: For thou hast delivered my soul from death, yea, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life.

End of day 157.