Day 291:

Reading Mark, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
    2: As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, "Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way;
    3: the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight -- "
    4: John the baptizer appeared in the wilderness, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
    5: And there went out to him all the country of Judea, and all the people of Jerusalem; and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
    6: Now John was clothed with camel's hair, and had a leather girdle around his waist, and ate locusts and wild honey.
    7: And he preached, saying, "After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
    8: I have baptized you with water; but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."
    9: In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
    10: And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens opened and the Spirit descending upon him like a dove;
    11: and a voice came from heaven, "Thou art my beloved Son; with thee I am well pleased."
    12: The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness.
    13: And he was in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan; and he was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered to him.
    14: Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God,
    15: and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent, and believe in the gospel."
    16: And passing along by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net in the sea; for they were fishermen.
    17: And Jesus said to them, "Follow me and I will make you become fishers of men."
    18: And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
    19: And going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zeb'edee and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets.
    20: And immediately he called them; and they left their father Zeb'edee in the boat with the hired servants, and followed him.
    21: And they went into Caper'na-um; and immediately on the sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught.
    22: And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes.
    23: And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit;
    24: and he cried out, "What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God."
    25: But Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, and come out of him!"
    26: And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.
    27: And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new teaching! With authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him."
    28: And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee.
    29: And immediately he left the synagogue, and entered the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
    30: Now Simon's mother-in-law lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him of her.
    31: And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her; and she served them.
    32: That evening, at sundown, they brought to him all who were sick or possessed with demons.
    33: And the whole city was gathered together about the door.
    34: And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him.
    35: And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose and went out to a lonely place, and there he prayed.
    36: And Simon and those who were with him pursued him,
    37: and they found him and said to him, "Every one is searching for you."
    38: And he said to them, "Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also; for that is why I came out."
    39: And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.
    40: And a leper came to him beseeching him, and kneeling said to him, "If you will, you can make me clean."
    41: Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him, and said to him, "I will; be clean."
    42: And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean.
    43: And he sternly charged him, and sent him away at once,
    44: and said to him, "See that you say nothing to any one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to the people."
    45: But he went out and began to talk freely about it, and to spread the news, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but was out in the country; and people came to him from every quarter.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And when he returned to Caper'na-um after some days, it was reported that he was at home.
    2: And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, not even about the door; and he was preaching the word to them.
    3: And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men.
    4: And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him; and when they had made an opening, they let down the pallet on which the paralytic lay.
    5: And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, "My son, your sins are forgiven."
    6: Now some of the scribes were sitting there, questioning in their hearts,
    7: "Why does this man speak thus? It is blasphemy! Who can forgive sins but God alone?"
    8: And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, "Why do you question thus in your hearts?
    9: Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, `Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, `Rise, take up your pallet and walk'?
    10: But that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins" -- he said to the paralytic --
    11: "I say to you, rise, take up your pallet and go home."
    12: And he rose, and immediately took up the pallet and went out before them all; so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, "We never saw anything like this!"
    13: He went out again beside the sea; and all the crowd gathered about him, and he taught them.
    14: And as he passed on, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, "Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
    15: And as he sat at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were sitting with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many who followed him.
    16: And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, "Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
    17: And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick; I came not to call the righteous, but sinners."
    18: Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; and people came and said to him, "Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"
    19: And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
    20: The days will come, when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day.
    21: No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; if he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
    22: And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; if he does, the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is lost, and so are the skins; but new wine is for fresh skins."
    23: One sabbath he was going through the grainfields; and as they made their way his disciples began to pluck heads of grain.
    24: And the Pharisees said to him, "Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the sabbath?"
    25: And he said to them, "Have you never read what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him:
    26: how he entered the house of God, when Abi'athar was high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?"
    27: And he said to them, "The sabbath was made for man, not man for the sabbath;
    28: so the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath."

  Chapter 3.

    1: Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand.
    2: And they watched him, to see whether he would heal him on the sabbath, so that they might accuse him.
    3: And he said to the man who had the withered hand, "Come here."
    4: And he said to them, "Is it lawful on the sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?" But they were silent.
    5: And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
    6: The Pharisees went out, and immediately held counsel with the Hero'di-ans against him, how to destroy him.
    7: Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed; also from Judea
    8: and Jerusalem and Idume'a and from beyond the Jordan and from about Tyre and Sidon a great multitude, hearing all that he did, came to him.
    9: And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they should crush him;
    10: for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed upon him to touch him.
    11: And whenever the unclean spirits beheld him, they fell down before him and cried out, "You are the Son of God."
    12: And he strictly ordered them not to make him known.
    13: And he went up on the mountain, and called to him those whom he desired; and they came to him.
    14: And he appointed twelve, to be with him, and to be sent out to preach
    15: and have authority to cast out demons:
    16: Simon whom he surnamed Peter;
    17: James the son of Zeb'edee and John the brother of James, whom he surnamed Bo-aner'ges, that is, sons of thunder;
    18: Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean,
    19: and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. Then he went home;
    20: and the crowd came together again, so that they could not even eat.
    21: And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for people were saying, "He is beside himself."
    22: And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, "He is possessed by Be-el'zebul, and by the prince of demons he casts out the demons."
    23: And he called them to him, and said to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?
    24: If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
    25: And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand.
    26: And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end.
    27: But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man; then indeed he may plunder his house.
    28: "Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they utter;
    29: but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin" --
    30: for they had said, "He has an unclean spirit."
    31: And his mother and his brothers came; and standing outside they sent to him and called him.
    32: And a crowd was sitting about him; and they said to him, "Your mother and your brothers are outside, asking for you."
    33: And he replied, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"
    34: And looking around on those who sat about him, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
    35: Whoever does the will of God is my brother, and sister, and mother."

  Chapter 4.

    1: Again he began to teach beside the sea. And a very large crowd gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea; and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land.
    2: And he taught them many things in parables, and in his teaching he said to them:
    3: "Listen! A sower went out to sow.
    4: And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
    5: Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it had not much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil;
    6: and when the sun rose it was scorched, and since it had no root it withered away.
    7: Other seed fell among thorns and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain.
    8: And other seeds fell into good soil and brought forth grain, growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
    9: And he said, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
    10: And when he was alone, those who were about him with the twelve asked him concerning the parables.
    11: And he said to them, "To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside everything is in parables;
    12: so that they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand; lest they should turn again, and be forgiven."
    13: And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
    14: The sower sows the word.
    15: And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown; when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word which is sown in them.
    16: And these in like manner are the ones sown upon rocky ground, who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy;
    17: and they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away.
    18: And others are the ones sown among thorns; they are those who hear the word,
    19: but the cares of the world, and the delight in riches, and the desire for other things, enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
    20: But those that were sown upon the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold."
    21: And he said to them, "Is a lamp brought in to be put under a bushel, or under a bed, and not on a stand?
    22: For there is nothing hid, except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret, except to come to light.
    23: If any man has ears to hear, let him hear."
    24: And he said to them, "Take heed what you hear; the measure you give will be the measure you get, and still more will be given you.
    25: For to him who has will more be given; and from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away."
    26: And he said, "The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed upon the ground,
    27: and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should sprout and grow, he knows not how.
    28: The earth produces of itself, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
    29: But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come."
    30: And he said, "With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it?
    31: It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown upon the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth;
    32: yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes the greatest of all shrubs, and puts forth large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade."
    33: With many such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear it;
    34: he did not speak to them without a parable, but privately to his own disciples he explained everything.
    35: On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side."
    36: And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him.
    37: And a great storm of wind arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so that the boat was already filling.
    38: But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion; and they woke him and said to him, "Teacher, do you not care if we perish?"
    39: And he awoke and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, "Peace! Be still!" And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.
    40: He said to them, "Why are you afraid? Have you no faith?"
    41: And they were filled with awe, and said to one another, "Who then is this, that even wind and sea obey him?"

End of day 291.