Day 7:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Abraham took another wife, whose name was Ketu'rah.
    2: She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Mid'ian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
    3: Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshu'rim, Letu'shim, and Le-um'mim.
    4: The sons of Mid'ian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abi'da, and Elda'ah. All these were the children of Ketu'rah.
    5: Abraham gave all he had to Isaac.
    6: But to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living he sent them away from his son Isaac, eastward to the east country.
    7: These are the days of the years of Abraham's life, a hundred and seventy-five years.
    8: Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people.
    9: Isaac and Ish'mael his sons buried him in the cave of Mach-pe'lah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre,
    10: the field which Abraham purchased from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried, with Sarah his wife.
    11: After the death of Abraham God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt at Beer-la'hai-roi.
    12: These are the descendants of Ish'mael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's maid, bore to Abraham.
    13: These are the names of the sons of Ish'mael, named in the order of their birth: Neba'ioth, the first-born of Ish'mael; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
    14: Mishma, Dumah, Massa,
    15: Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Ked'emah.
    16: These are the sons of Ish'mael and these are their names, by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their tribes.
    17: (These are the years of the life of Ish'mael, a hundred and thirty-seven years; he breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his kindred.)
    18: They dwelt from Hav'ilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt in the direction of Assyria; he settled over against all his people.
    19: These are the descendants of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham was the father of Isaac,
    20: and Isaac was forty years old when he took to wife Rebekah, the daughter of Bethu'el the Aramean of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean.
    21: And Isaac prayed to the LORD for his wife, because she was barren; and the LORD granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
    22: The children struggled together within her; and she said, "If it is thus, why do I live?" So she went to inquire of the LORD.
    23: And the LORD said to her, "Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples, born of you, shall be divided; the one shall be stronger than the other, the elder shall serve the younger."
    24: When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.
    25: The first came forth red, all his body like a hairy mantle; so they called his name Esau.
    26: Afterward his brother came forth, and his hand had taken hold of Esau's heel; so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
    27: When the boys grew up, Esau was a skilful hunter, a man of the field, while Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.
    28: Isaac loved Esau, because he ate of his game; but Rebekah loved Jacob.
    29: Once when Jacob was boiling pottage, Esau came in from the field, and he was famished.
    30: And Esau said to Jacob, "Let me eat some of that red pottage, for I am famished!" (Therefore his name was called Edom.)
    31: Jacob said, "First sell me your birthright."
    32: Esau said, "I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?"
    33: Jacob said, "Swear to me first." So he swore to him, and sold his birthright to Jacob.
    34: Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he ate and drank, and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright.

  Chapter 26.

    1: Now there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Gerar, to Abim'elech king of the Philistines.
    2: And the LORD appeared to him, and said, "Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land of which I shall tell you.
    3: Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you, and will bless you; for to you and to your descendants I will give all these lands, and I will fulfil the oath which I swore to Abraham your father.
    4: I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and will give to your descendants all these lands; and by your descendants all the nations of the earth shall bless themselves:
    5: because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws."
    6: So Isaac dwelt in Gerar.
    7: When the men of the place asked him about his wife, he said, "She is my sister"; for he feared to say, "My wife," thinking, "lest the men of the place should kill me for the sake of Rebekah"; because she was fair to look upon.
    8: When he had been there a long time, Abim'elech king of the Philistines looked out of a window and saw Isaac fondling Rebekah his wife.
    9: So Abim'elech called Isaac, and said, "Behold, she is your wife; how then could you say, `She is my sister'?" Isaac said to him, "Because I thought, `Lest I die because of her.'"
    10: Abim'elech said, "What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us."
    11: So Abim'elech warned all the people, saying, "Whoever touches this man or his wife shall be put to death."
    12: And Isaac sowed in that land, and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. The LORD blessed him,
    13: and the man became rich, and gained more and more until he became very wealthy.
    14: He had possessions of flocks and herds, and a great household, so that the Philistines envied him.
    15: (Now the Philistines had stopped and filled with earth all the wells which his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father.)
    16: And Abim'elech said to Isaac, "Go away from us; for you are much mightier than we."
    17: So Isaac departed from there, and encamped in the valley of Gerar and dwelt there.
    18: And Isaac dug again the wells of water which had been dug in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham; and he gave them the names which his father had given them.
    19: But when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of springing water,
    20: the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, "The water is ours." So he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him.
    21: Then they dug another well, and they quarreled over that also; so he called its name Sitnah.
    22: And he moved from there and dug another well, and over that they did not quarrel; so he called its name Reho'both, saying, "For now the LORD has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land."
    23: From there he went up to Beer-sheba.
    24: And the LORD appeared to him the same night and said, "I am the God of Abraham your father; fear not, for I am with you and will bless you and multiply your descendants for my servant Abraham's sake."
    25: So he built an altar there and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there. And there Isaac's servants dug a well.
    26: Then Abim'elech went to him from Gerar with Ahuz'zath his adviser and Phicol the commander of his army.
    27: Isaac said to them, "Why have you come to me, seeing that you hate me and have sent me away from you?"
    28: They said, "We see plainly that the LORD is with you; so we say, let there be an oath between you and us, and let us make a covenant with you,
    29: that you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done to you nothing but good and have sent you away in peace. You are now the blessed of the LORD."
    30: So he made them a feast, and they ate and drank.
    31: In the morning they rose early and took oath with one another; and Isaac set them on their way, and they departed from him in peace.
    32: That same day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well which they had dug, and said to him, "We have found water."
    33: He called it Shibah; therefore the name of the city is Beer-sheba to this day.
    34: When Esau was forty years old, he took to wife Judith the daughter of Be-e'ri the Hittite, and Bas'emath the daughter of Elon the Hittite;
    35: and they made life bitter for Isaac and Rebekah.

  Chapter 27.

    1: When Isaac was old and his eyes were dim so that he could not see, he called Esau his older son, and said to him, "My son"; and he answered, "Here I am."
    2: He said, "Behold, I am old; I do not know the day of my death.
    3: Now then, take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field, and hunt game for me,
    4: and prepare for me savory food, such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat; that I may bless you before I die."
    5: Now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to his son Esau. So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game and bring it,
    6: Rebekah said to her son Jacob, "I heard your father speak to your brother Esau,
    7: `Bring me game, and prepare for me savory food, that I may eat it, and bless you before the LORD before I die.'
    8: Now therefore, my son, obey my word as I command you.
    9: Go to the flock, and fetch me two good kids, that I may prepare from them savory food for your father, such as he loves;
    10: and you shall bring it to your father to eat, so that he may bless you before he dies."
    11: But Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, "Behold, my brother Esau is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
    12: Perhaps my father will feel me, and I shall seem to be mocking him, and bring a curse upon myself and not a blessing."
    13: His mother said to him, "Upon me be your curse, my son; only obey my word, and go, fetch them to me."
    14: So he went and took them and brought them to his mother; and his mother prepared savory food, such as his father loved.
    15: Then Rebekah took the best garments of Esau her older son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son;
    16: and the skins of the kids she put upon his hands and upon the smooth part of his neck;
    17: and she gave the savory food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
    18: So he went in to his father, and said, "My father"; and he said, "Here I am; who are you, my son?"
    19: Jacob said to his father, "I am Esau your first-born. I have done as you told me; now sit up and eat of my game, that you may bless me."
    20: But Isaac said to his son, "How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?" He answered, "Because the LORD your God granted me success."
    21: Then Isaac said to Jacob, "Come near, that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really my son Esau or not."
    22: So Jacob went near to Isaac his father, who felt him and said, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau."
    23: And he did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands; so he blessed him.
    24: He said, "Are you really my son Esau?" He answered, "I am."
    25: Then he said, "Bring it to me, that I may eat of my son's game and bless you." So he brought it to him, and he ate; and he brought him wine, and he drank.
    26: Then his father Isaac said to him, "Come near and kiss me, my son."
    27: So he came near and kissed him; and he smelled the smell of his garments, and blessed him, and said, "See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD has blessed!
    28: May God give you of the dew of heaven, and of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and wine.
    29: Let peoples serve you, and nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be every one who curses you, and blessed be every one who blesses you!"
    30: As soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, when Jacob had scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
    31: He also prepared savory food, and brought it to his father. And he said to his father, "Let my father arise, and eat of his son's game, that you may bless me."
    32: His father Isaac said to him, "Who are you?" He answered, "I am your son, your first-born, Esau."
    33: Then Isaac trembled violently, and said, "Who was it then that hunted game and brought it to me, and I ate it all before you came, and I have blessed him? -- yes, and he shall be blessed."
    34: When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with an exceedingly great and bitter cry, and said to his father, "Bless me, even me also, O my father!"
    35: But he said, "Your brother came with guile, and he has taken away your blessing."
    36: Esau said, "Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright; and behold, now he has taken away my blessing." Then he said, "Have you not reserved a blessing for me?"
    37: Isaac answered Esau, "Behold, I have made him your lord, and all his brothers I have given to him for servants, and with grain and wine I have sustained him. What then can I do for you, my son?"
    38: Esau said to his father, "Have you but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father." And Esau lifted up his voice and wept.
    39: Then Isaac his father answered him: "Behold, away from the fatness of the earth shall your dwelling be, and away from the dew of heaven on high.
    40: By your sword you shall live, and you shall serve your brother; but when you break loose you shall break his yoke from your neck."
    41: Now Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him, and Esau said to himself, "The days of mourning for my father are approaching; then I will kill my brother Jacob."
    42: But the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah; so she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said to him, "Behold, your brother Esau comforts himself by planning to kill you.
    43: Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee to Laban my brother in Haran,
    44: and stay with him a while, until your brother's fury turns away;
    45: until your brother's anger turns away, and he forgets what you have done to him; then I will send, and fetch you from there. Why should I be bereft of you both in one day?"
    46: Then Rebekah said to Isaac, "I am weary of my life because of the Hittite women. If Jacob marries one of the Hittite women such as these, one of the women of the land, what good will my life be to me?"

  Chapter 28.

    1: Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him, and charged him, "You shall not marry one of the Canaanite women.
    2: Arise, go to Paddan-aram to the house of Bethu'el your mother's father; and take as wife from there one of the daughters of Laban your mother's brother.
    3: God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples.
    4: May he give the blessing of Abraham to you and to your descendants with you, that you may take possession of the land of your sojournings which God gave to Abraham!"
    5: Thus Isaac sent Jacob away; and he went to Paddan-aram to Laban, the son of Bethu'el the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
    6: Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram to take a wife from there, and that as he blessed him he charged him, "You shall not marry one of the Canaanite women,"
    7: and that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and gone to Paddan-aram.
    8: So when Esau saw that the Canaanite women did not please Isaac his father,
    9: Esau went to Ish'mael and took to wife, besides the wives he had, Ma'halath the daughter of Ish'mael Abraham's son, the sister of Neba'ioth.
    10: Jacob left Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran.
    11: And he came to a certain place, and stayed there that night, because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones of the place, he put it under his head and lay down in that place to sleep.
    12: And he dreamed that there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it!
    13: And behold, the LORD stood above it and said, "I am the LORD, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac; the land on which you lie I will give to you and to your descendants;
    14: and your descendants shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south; and by you and your descendants shall all the families of the earth bless themselves.
    15: Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land; for I will not leave you until I have done that of which I have spoken to you."
    16: Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, "Surely the LORD is in this place; and I did not know it."
    17: And he was afraid, and said, "How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven."
    18: So Jacob rose early in the morning, and he took the stone which he had put under his head and set it up for a pillar and poured oil on the top of it.
    19: He called the name of that place Bethel; but the name of the city was Luz at the first.
    20: Then Jacob made a vow, saying, "If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear,
    21: so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then the LORD shall be my God,
    22: and this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house; and of all that thou givest me I will give the tenth to thee."

End of day 7.