Day 260:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: King Belshazzar gave a great banquet for a thousand of his lords, with whom he drank.
    2: Under the influence of the wine, he ordered the gold and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar, his father, had taken from the temple in Jerusalem, to be brought in so that the king, his lords, his wives and his entertainers might drink from them.
    3: When the gold and silver vessels taken from the house of God in Jerusalem had been brought in, and while the king, his lords, his wives and his entertainers were drinking
    4: wine from them, they praised their gods of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone.
    5: Suddenly, opposite the lampstand, the fingers of a human hand appeared, writing on the plaster of the wall in the king's palace. When the king saw the wrist and hand that wrote,
    6: his face blanched; his thoughts terrified him, his hip joints shook, and his knees knocked.
    7: The king shouted for the enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers to be brought in. "Whoever reads this writing and tells me what it means," he said to the wise men of Babylon, "shall be clothed in purple, wear a golden collar about his neck, and be third in the government of the kingdom."
    8: But though all the king's wise men came in, none of them could either read the writing or tell the king what it meant.
    9: Then King Belshazzar was greatly terrified; his face went ashen, and his lords were thrown into confusion.
    10: When the queen heard of the discussion between the king and his lords, she entered the banquet hall and said, "O king, live forever! Be not troubled in mind, nor look so pale!
    11: There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the spirit of the holy God; during the lifetime of your father he was seen to have brilliant knowledge and god-like wisdom. In fact, King Nebuchadnezzar, your father, made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers,
    12: because of the extraordinary mind possessed by this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. He knew and understood how to interpret dreams, explain enigmas, and solve difficulties. Now therefore, summon Daniel to tell you what this means."
    13: Then Daniel was brought into the presence of the king. The king asked him, "Are you the Daniel, the Jewish exile, whom my father, the king, brought from Judah?
    14: I have heard that the spirit of God is in you, that you possess brilliant knowledge and extraordinary wisdom.
    15: Now, the wise men and enchanters were brought in to me to read this writing and tell me its meaning, but they could not say what the words meant.
    16: But I have heard that you can interpret dreams and solve difficulties; if you are able to read the writing and tell me what it means, you shall be clothed in purple, wear a gold collar about your neck, and be third in the government of the kingdom."
    17: Daniel answered the king: "You may keep your gifts, or give your presents to someone else; but the writing I will read for you, O king, and tell you what it means.
    18: The Most High God gave your father Nebuchadnezzar a great kingdom and glorious majesty.
    19: Because he made him so great, the nations and peoples of every language dreaded and feared him. Whomever he wished, he killed or let live; whomever he wished, he exalted or humbled.
    20: But when his heart became proud and his spirit hardened by insolence, he was put down from his royal throne and deprived of his glory;
    21: he was cast out from among men and was made insensate as a beast; he lived with wild asses, and ate grass like an ox; his body was bathed with the dew of heaven, until he learned that the Most High God rules over the kingdom of men and appoints over it whom he will.
    22: You, his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this;
    23: you have rebelled against the Lord of heaven. You had the vessels of his temple brought before you, so that you and your nobles, your wives and your entertainers, might drink wine from them; and you praised the gods of silver and gold, bronze and iron, wood and stone, that neither see nor hear nor have intelligence. But the God in whose hand is your life breath and the whole course of your life, you did not glorify.
    24: By him were the wrist and hand sent, and the writing set down.
    25: "This is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, TEKEL, and PERES. These words mean:
    26: MENE, God has numbered your kingdom and put an end to it;
    27: TEKEL, you have been weighed on the scales and found wanting;
    28: PERES, your kingdom has been divided and given to the Medes and Persians."
    29: Then by order of Belshazzar they clothed Daniel in purple, with a gold collar about his neck, and proclaimed him third in the government of the kingdom.
    30: The same night Belshazzar, the Chaldean king, was slain:

  Chapter 6.

    1: And Darius the Mede succeeded to the kingdom at the age of sixty-two.
    2: Darius decided to appoint over his entire kingdom one hundred and twenty satraps, to safeguard his interests;
    3: these were accountable to three supervisors, one of whom was Daniel.
    4: Daniel outshone all the supervisors and satraps because an extraordinary spirit was in him, and the king thought of giving him authority over the entire kingdom.
    5: Therefore the supervisors and satraps tried to find grounds for accusation against Daniel as regards the administration. But they could accuse him of no wrongdoing; because he was trustworthy, no fault of neglect or misconduct was to be found in him.
    6: Then these men said to themselves, "We shall find no grounds for accusation against this Daniel unless by way of the law of his God."
    7: So these supervisors and satraps went thronging to the king and said to him, "King Darius, live forever!
    8: All the supervisors of the kingdom, the prefects, satraps, nobles, and governors are agreed that the following prohibition ought to be put in force by royal decree: no one is to address any petition to god or man for thirty days, except to you, O king; otherwise he shall be cast into a den of lions.
    9: Now, O king, issue the prohibition over your signature, immutable and irrevocable under Mede and Persian law."
    10: So King Darius signed the prohibition and made it law.
    11: Even after Daniel heard that this law had been signed, he continued his custom of going home to kneel in prayer and give thanks to his God in the upper chamber three times a day, with the windows open toward Jerusalem.
    12: So these men rushed in and found Daniel praying and pleading before his God.
    13: Then they went to remind the king about the prohibition: "Did you not decree, O king, that no one is to address a petition to god or man for thirty days, except to you, O king; otherwise he shall be cast into a den of lions?" The king answered them, "The decree is absolute, irrevocable under the Mede and Persian law."
    14: To this they replied, "Daniel, the Jewish exile, has paid no attention to you, O king, or to the decree you issued; three times a day he offers his prayer."
    15: The king was deeply grieved at this news and he made up his mind to save Daniel; he worked till sunset to rescue him.
    16: But these men insisted. "Keep in mind, O king," they said, "that under the Mede and Persian law every royal prohibition or decree is irrevocable."
    17: So the king ordered Daniel to be brought and cast into the lions' den. To Daniel he said, "May your God, whom you serve so constantly, save you."
    18: To forestall any tampering, the king sealed with his own ring and the rings of the lords the stone that had been brought to block the opening of the den.
    19: Then the king returned to his palace for the night; he refused to eat and he dismissed the entertainers. Since sleep was impossible for him,
    20: the king rose very early the next morning and hastened to the lions' den.
    21: As he drew near, he cried out to Daniel sorrowfully, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, has the God whom you serve so constantly been able to save you from the lions?"
    22: Daniel answered the king: "O king, live forever!
    23: My God has sent his angel and closed the lions' mouths so that they have not hurt me. For I have been found innocent before him; neither to you have I done any harm, O king!"
    24: This gave the king great joy. At his order Daniel was removed from the den, unhurt because he trusted in his God.
    25: The king then ordered the men who had accused Daniel, along with their children and their wives, to be cast into the lions' den. Before they reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones.
    26: Then King Darius wrote to the nations and peoples of every language, wherever they dwell on the earth: "All peace to you!
    27: I decree that throughout my royal domain the God of Daniel is to be reverenced and feared: "For he is the living God, enduring forever; his kingdom shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be without end.
    28: He is a deliverer and savior, working signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, and he delivered Daniel from the lions' power."
    29: So Daniel fared well during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian.

  Chapter 7.

    1: In the first year of King Belshazzar of Babylon, Daniel had a dream as he lay in bed, and was terrified by the visions of his mind. Then he wrote down the dream; the account began:
    2: In the vision I saw during the night, suddenly the four winds of heaven stirred up the great sea,
    3: from which emerged four immense beasts, each different from the others.
    4: The first was like a lion, but with eagle's wings. While I watched, the wings were plucked; it was raised from the ground to stand on two feet like a man, and given a human mind.
    5: The second was like a bear; it was raised up on one side, and among the teeth in its mouth were three tusks. It was given the order, "Up, devour much flesh."
    6: After this I looked and saw another beast, like a leopard; on its back were four wings like those of a bird, and it had four heads. To this beast dominion was given.
    7: After this, in the visions of the night I saw the fourth beast, different from all the others, terrifying, horrible, and of extraordinary strength; it had great iron teeth with which it devoured and crushed, and what was left it trampled with its feet.
    8: I was considering the ten horns it had, when suddenly another, a little horn, sprang out of their midst, and three of the previous horns were torn away to make room for it. This horn had eyes like a man, and a mouth that spoke arrogantly.
    9: As I watched, Thrones were set up and the Ancient One took his throne. His clothing was snow bright, and the hair on his head as white as wool; His throne was flames of fire, with wheels of burning fire.
    10: A surging stream of fire flowed out from where he sat; Thousands upon thousands were ministering to him, and myriads upon myriads attended him. The court was convened, and the books were opened.
    11: I watched, then, from the first of the arrogant words which the horn spoke, until the beast was slain and its body thrown into the fire to be burnt up.
    12: The other beasts, which also lost their dominion, were granted a prolongation of life for a time and a season.
    13: As the visions during the night continued, I saw One like a son of man coming, on the clouds of heaven; When he reached the Ancient One and was presented before him,
    14: He received dominion, glory, and kingship; nations and peoples of every language serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that shall not be taken away, his kingship shall not be destroyed.
    15: I, Daniel, found my spirit anguished within its sheath of flesh, and I was terrified by the visions of my mind.
    16: I approached one of those present and asked him what all this meant in truth; in answer, he made known to me the meaning of the things:
    17: "These four great beasts stand for four kingdoms which shall arise on the earth.
    18: But the holy ones of the Most High shall receive the kingship, to possess it forever and ever."
    19: But I wished to make certain about the fourth beast, so very terrible and different from the others, devouring and crushing with its iron teeth and bronze claws, and trampling with its feet what was left;
    20: about the ten horns on its head, and the other one that sprang up, before which three horns fell; about the horn with the eyes and the mouth that spoke arrogantly, which appeared greater than its fellows.
    21: For, as I watched, that horn made war against the holy ones and was victorious
    22: until the Ancient One arrived; judgment was pronounced in favor of the holy ones of the Most High, and the time came when the holy ones possessed the kingdom.
    23: He answered me thus: "The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, different from all the others; It shall devour the whole earth, beat it down, and crush it.
    24: The ten horns shall be ten kings rising out of that kingdom; another shall rise up after them, Different from those before him, who shall lay low three kings.
    25: He shall speak against the Most High and oppress the holy ones of the Most High, thinking to change the feast days and the law. They shall be handed over to him for a year, two years, and a half-year.
    26: But when the court is convened, and his power is taken away by final and absolute destruction,
    27: Then the kingship and dominion and majesty of all the kingdoms under the heavens shall be given to the holy people of the Most High, Whose kingdom shall be everlasting: all dominions shall serve and obey him."
    28: The report concluded: I, Daniel, was greatly terrified by my thoughts, and my face blanched, but I kept the matter to myself.

  Chapter 8.

    1: After this first vision, I, Daniel, had another, in the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar.
    2: In my vision I saw myself in the fortress of Susa in the province of Elam; I was beside the river Ulai.
    3: I looked up and saw standing by the river a ram with two great horns, the one larger and newer than the other.
    4: I saw the ram butting toward the west, north, and south. No beast could withstand it or be rescued from its power; it did what it pleased and became very powerful.
    5: As I was reflecting, a he-goat with a prominent horn on its forehead suddenly came from the west across the whole earth without touching the ground.
    6: It approached the two-horned ram I had seen standing by the river, and rushed toward it with savage force.
    7: I saw it attack the ram with furious blows when they met, and break both its horns. It threw the ram, which had not the force to withstand it, to the ground, and trampled upon it; and no one could rescue it from its power.
    8: The he-goat became very powerful, but at the height of its power the great horn was shattered, and in its place came up four others, facing the four winds of heaven.
    9: Out of one of them came a little horn which kept growing toward the south, the east, and the glorious country.
    10: Its power extended to the host of heaven, so that it cast down to earth some of the host and some of the stars and trampled on them.
    11: It boasted even against the prince of the host, from whom it removed the daily sacrifice, and whose sanctuary it cast down,
    12: as well as the host, while sin replaced the daily sacrifice. It cast truth to the ground, and was succeeding in its undertaking.
    13: I heard a holy one speaking, and another said to whichever one it was that spoke, "How long shall the events of this vision last concerning the daily sacrifice, the desolating sin which is placed there, the sanctuary, and the trampled host?"
    14: He answered him, "For two thousand three hundred evenings and mornings; then the sanctuary shall be purified."
    15: While I, Daniel, sought the meaning of the vision I had seen, a manlike figure stood before me,
    16: and on the Ulai I heard a human voice that cried out, "Gabriel, explain the vision to this man."
    17: When he came near where I was standing, I fell prostrate in terror. But he said to me, "Understand, son of man, that the vision refers to the end time."
    18: As he spoke to me, I fell forward in a faint; he touched me and made me stand up.
    19: "I will show you," he said, "what is to happen later in the period of wrath; for at the appointed time, there will be an end.
    20: "The two-horned ram you saw represents the kings of the Medes and Persians.
    21: The he-goat is the king of the Greeks, and the great horn on its forehead is the first king.
    22: The four that rose in its place when it was broken are four kingdoms that will issue from his nation, but without his strength.
    23: "After their reign, when sinners have reached their measure, There shall arise a king, impudent and skilled in intrigue.
    24: He shall be strong and powerful, bring about fearful ruin, and succeed in his undertaking. He shall destroy powerful peoples;
    25: his cunning shall be against the holy ones, his treacherous conduct shall succeed. He shall be proud of heart and destroy many by stealth. But when he rises against the prince of princes, he shall be broken without a hand being raised.
    26: The vision of the evenings and the mornings is true, as spoken; Do you, however, keep this vision undisclosed, because the days are to be many."
    27: I, Daniel, was weak and ill for some days; then I arose and took care of the king's affairs. But I was appalled at the vision, which I could not understand.

End of day 260.