Day 209:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: Every friend will say, "I too am a friend"; but some friends are friends only in name.
    2: Is it not a grief to the death when a companion and friend turns to enmity?
    3: O evil imagination, why were you formed to cover the land with deceit?
    4: Some companions rejoice in the happiness of a friend, but in time of trouble are against him.
    5: Some companions help a friend for their stomach's sake, and in the face of battle take up the shield.
    6: Do not forget a friend in your heart, and be not unmindful of him in your wealth.
    7: Every counselor praises counsel, but some give counsel in their own interest.
    8: Be wary of a counselor, and learn first what is his interest -- for he will take thought for himself -- lest he cast the lot against you
    9: and tell you, "Your way is good," and then stand aloof to see what will happen to you.
    10: Do not consult the one who looks at you suspiciously; hide your counsel from those who are jealous of you.
    11: Do not consult with a woman about her rival or with a coward about war, with a merchant about barter or with a buyer about selling, with a grudging man about gratitude or with a merciless man about kindness, with an idler about any work or with a man hired for a year about completing his work, with a lazy servant about a big task -- pay no attention to these in any matter of counsel.
    12: But stay constantly with a godly man whom you know to be a keeper of the commandments, whose soul is in accord with your soul, and who will sorrow with you if you fail.
    13: And establish the counsel of your own heart, for no one is more faithful to you than it is.
    14: For a man's soul sometimes keeps him better informed than seven watchmen sitting high on a watchtower.
    15: And besides all this pray to the Most High that he may direct your way in truth.
    16: Reason is the beginning of every work, and counsel precedes every undertaking.
    17: As a clue to changes of heart
    18: four turns of fortune appear, good and evil, life and death; and it is the tongue that continually rules them.
    19: A man may be shrewd and the teacher of many, and yet be unprofitable to himself.
    20: A man skilled in words may be hated; he will be destitute of all food,
    21: for grace was not given him by the Lord, since he is lacking in all wisdom.
    22: A man may be wise to his own advantage, and the fruits of his understanding may be trustworthy on his lips.
    23: A wise man will instruct his own people, and the fruits of his understanding will be trustworthy.
    24: A wise man will have praise heaped upon him, and all who see him will call him happy.
    25: The life of a man is numbered by days, but the days of Israel are without number.
    26: He who is wise among his people will inherit confidence, and his name will live for ever.
    27: My son, test your soul while you live; see what is bad for it and do not give it that.
    28: For not everything is good for every one, and not every person enjoys everything.
    29: Do not have an insatiable appetite for any luxury, and do not give yourself up to food;
    30: for overeating brings sickness, and gluttony leads to nausea.
    31: Many have died of gluttony, but he who is careful to avoid it prolongs his life.

  Chapter 38.

    1: Honor the physician with the honor due him, according to your need of him, for the Lord created him;
    2: for healing comes from the Most High, and he will receive a gift from the king.
    3: The skill of the physician lifts up his head, and in the presence of great men he is admired.
    4: The Lord created medicines from the earth, and a sensible man will not despise them.
    5: Was not water made sweet with a tree in order that his power might be known?
    6: And he gave skill to men that he might be glorified in his marvelous works.
    7: By them he heals and takes away pain;
    8: the pharmacist makes of them a compound. His works will never be finished; and from him health is upon the face of the earth.
    9: My son, when you are sick do not be negligent, but pray to the Lord, and he will heal you.
    10: Give up your faults and direct your hands aright, and cleanse your heart from all sin.
    11: Offer a sweet-smelling sacrifice, and a memorial portion of fine flour, and pour oil on your offering, as much as you can afford.
    12: And give the physician his place, for the Lord created him; let him not leave you, for there is need of him.
    13: There is a time when success lies in the hands of physicians,
    14: for they too will pray to the Lord that he should grant them success in diagnosis and in healing, for the sake of preserving life.
    15: He who sins before his Maker, may he fall into the care of a physician.
    16: My son, let your tears fall for the dead, and as one who is suffering grievously begin the lament. Lay out his body with the honor due him, and do not neglect his burial.
    17: Let your weeping be bitter and your wailing fervent; observe the mourning according to his merit, for one day, or two, to avoid criticism; then be comforted for your sorrow.
    18: For sorrow results in death, and sorrow of heart saps one's strength.
    19: In calamity sorrow continues, and the life of the poor man weighs down his heart.
    20: Do not give your heart to sorrow; drive it away, remembering the end of life.
    21: Do not forget, there is no coming back; you do the dead no good, and you injure yourself.
    22: "Remember my doom, for yours is like it: yesterday it was mine, and today it is yours."
    23: When the dead is at rest, let his remembrance cease, and be comforted for him when his spirit is departed.
    24: The wisdom of the scribe depends on the opportunity of leisure; and he who has little business may become wise.
    25: How can he become wise who handles the plow, and who glories in the shaft of a goad, who drives oxen and is occupied with their work, and whose talk is about bulls?
    26: He sets his heart on plowing furrows, and he is careful about fodder for the heifers.
    27: So too is every craftsman and master workman who labors by night as well as by day; those who cut the signets of seals, each is diligent in making a great variety; he sets his heart on painting a lifelike image, and he is careful to finish his work.
    28: So too is the smith sitting by the anvil, intent upon his handiwork in iron; the breath of the fire melts his flesh, and he wastes away in the heat of the furnace; he inclines his ear to the sound of the hammer, and his eyes are on the pattern of the object. He sets his heart on finishing his handiwork, and he is careful to complete its decoration.
    29: So too is the potter sitting at his work and turning the wheel with his feet; he is always deeply concerned over his work, and all his output is by number.
    30: He moulds the clay with his arm and makes it pliable with his feet; he sets his heart to finish the glazing, and he is careful to clean the furnace.
    31: All these rely upon their hands, and each is skilful in his own work.
    32: Without them a city cannot be established, and men can neither sojourn nor live there.
    33: Yet they are not sought out for the council of the people, nor do they attain eminence in the public assembly. They do not sit in the judge's seat, nor do they understand the sentence of judgment; they cannot expound discipline or judgment, and they are not found using proverbs.
    34: But they keep stable the fabric of the world, and their prayer is in the practice of their trade.

  Chapter 39.

    1: On the other hand he who devotes himself to the study of the law of the Most High will seek out the wisdom of all the ancients, and will be concerned with prophecies;
    2: he will preserve the discourse of notable men and penetrate the subtleties of parables;
    3: he will seek out the hidden meanings of proverbs and be at home with the obscurities of parables.
    4: He will serve among great men and appear before rulers; he will travel through the lands of foreign nations, for he tests the good and the evil among men.
    5: He will set his heart to rise early to seek the Lord who made him, and will make supplication before the Most High; he will open his mouth in prayer and make supplication for his sins.
    6: If the great Lord is willing, he will be filled with the spirit of understanding; he will pour forth words of wisdom and give thanks to the Lord in prayer.
    7: He will direct his counsel and knowledge aright, and meditate on his secrets.
    8: He will reveal instruction in his teaching, and will glory in the law of the Lord's covenant.
    9: Many will praise his understanding, and it will never be blotted out; his memory will not disappear, and his name will live through all generations.
    10: Nations will declare his wisdom, and the congregation will proclaim his praise;
    11: if he lives long, he will leave a name greater than a thousand, and if he goes to rest, it is enough for him.
    12: I have yet more to say, which I have thought upon, and I am filled, like the moon at the full.
    13: Listen to me, O you holy sons, and bud like a rose growing by a stream of water;
    14: send forth fragrance like frankincense, and put forth blossoms like a lily. Scatter the fragrance, and sing a hymn of praise; bless the Lord for all his works;
    15: ascribe majesty to his name and give thanks to him with praise, with songs on your lips, and with lyres; and this you shall say in thanksgiving:
    16: "All things are the works of the Lord, for they are very good, and whatever he commands will be done in his time."
    17: No one can say, "What is this?" "Why is that?" for in God's time all things will be sought after. At his word the waters stood in a heap, and the reservoirs of water at the word of his mouth.
    18: At his command whatever pleases him is done, and none can limit his saving power.
    19: The works of all flesh are before him, and nothing can be hid from his eyes.
    20: From everlasting to everlasting he beholds them, and nothing is marvelous to him.
    21: No one can say, "What is this?" "Why is that?" for everything has been created for its use.
    22: His blessing covers the dry land like a river, and drenches it like a flood.
    23: The nations will incur his wrath, just as he turns fresh water into salt.
    24: To the holy his ways are straight, just as they are obstacles to the wicked.
    25: From the beginning good things were created for good people, just as evil things for sinners.
    26: Basic to all the needs of man's life are water and fire and iron and salt and wheat flour and milk and honey, the blood of the grape, and oil and clothing.
    27: All these are for good to the godly, just as they turn into evils for sinners.
    28: There are winds that have been created for vengeance, and in their anger they scourge heavily; in the time of consummation they will pour out their strength and calm the anger of their Maker.
    29: Fire and hail and famine and pestilence, all these have been created for vengeance;
    30: the teeth of wild beasts, and scorpions and vipers, and the sword that punishes the ungodly with destruction;
    31: they will rejoice in his commands, and be made ready on earth for their service, and when their times come they will not transgress his word.
    32: Therefore from the beginning I have been convinced, and have thought this out and left it in writing:
    33: The works of the Lord are all good, and he will supply every need in its hour.
    34: And no one can say, "This is worse than that," for all things will prove good in their season.
    35: So now sing praise with all your heart and voice, and bless the name of the Lord.

  Chapter 40.

    1: Much labor was created for every man, and a heavy yoke is upon the sons of Adam, from the day they come forth from their mother's womb till the day they return to the mother of all.
    2: Their perplexities and fear of heart -- their anxious thought is the day of death,
    3: from the man who sits on a splendid throne to the one who is humbled in dust and ashes,
    4: from the man who wears purple and a crown to the one who is clothed in burlap;
    5: there is anger and envy and trouble and unrest, and fear of death, and fury and strife. And when one rests upon his bed, his sleep at night confuses his mind.
    6: He gets little or no rest, and afterward in his sleep, as though he were on watch, he is troubled by the visions of his mind like one who has escaped from the battle-front;
    7: at the moment of his rescue he wakes up, and wonders that his fear came to nothing.
    8: With all flesh, both man and beast, and upon sinners seven times more,
    9: are death and bloodshed and strife and sword, calamities, famine and affliction and plague.
    10: All these were created for the wicked, and on their account the flood came.
    11: All things that are from the earth turn back to the earth, and what is from the waters returns to the sea.
    12: All bribery and injustice will be blotted out, but good faith will stand for ever.
    13: The wealth of the unjust will dry up like a torrent, and crash like a loud clap of thunder in a rain.
    14: A generous man will be made glad; likewise transgressors will utterly fail.
    15: The children of the ungodly will not put forth many branches; they are unhealthy roots upon sheer rock.
    16: The reeds by any water or river bank will be plucked up before any grass.
    17: Kindness is like a garden of blessings, and almsgiving endures for ever.
    18: Life is sweet for the self-reliant and the worker, but he who finds treasure is better off than both.
    19: Children and the building of a city establish a man's name, but a blameless wife is accounted better than both.
    20: Wine and music gladden the heart, but the love of wisdom is better than both.
    21: The flute and the harp make pleasant melody, but a pleasant voice is better than both.
    22: The eye desires grace and beauty, but the green shoots of grain more than both.
    23: A friend or a companion never meets one amiss, but a wife with her husband is better than both.
    24: Brothers and help are for a time of trouble, but almsgiving rescues better than both.
    25: Gold and silver make the foot stand sure, but good counsel is esteemed more than both.
    26: Riches and strength lift up the heart, but the fear of the Lord is better than both. There is no loss in the fear of the Lord, and with it there is no need to seek for help.
    27: The fear of the Lord is like a garden of blessing, and covers a man better than any glory.
    28: My son, do not lead the life of a beggar; it is better to die than to beg.
    29: When a man looks to the table of another, his existence cannot be considered as life. He pollutes himself with another man's food, but a man who is intelligent and well instructed guards against that.
    30: In the mouth of the shameless begging is sweet, but in his stomach a fire is kindled.

End of day 209.