Day 28:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And the LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to Aaron and his sons, and to all the people of Israel, This is the thing which the LORD has commanded.
    3: If any man of the house of Israel kills an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp, or kills it outside the camp,
    4: and does not bring it to the door of the tent of meeting, to offer it as a gift to the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD, bloodguilt shall be imputed to that man; he has shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people.
    5: This is to the end that the people of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they slay in the open field, that they may bring them to the LORD, to the priest at the door of the tent of meeting, and slay them as sacrifices of peace offerings to the LORD;
    6: and the priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of the LORD at the door of the tent of meeting, and burn the fat for a pleasing odor to the LORD.
    7: So they shall no more slay their sacrifices for satyrs, after whom they play the harlot. This shall be a statute for ever to them throughout their generations.
    8: "And you shall say to them, Any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
    9: and does not bring it to the door of the tent of meeting, to sacrifice it to the LORD; that man shall be cut off from his people.
    10: "If any man of the house of Israel or of the strangers that sojourn among them eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
    11: For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it for you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it is the blood that makes atonement, by reason of the life.
    12: Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood.
    13: Any man also of the people of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any beast or bird that may be eaten shall pour out its blood and cover it with dust.
    14: "For the life of every creature is the blood of it; therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood; whoever eats it shall be cut off.
    15: And every person that eats what dies of itself or what is torn by beasts, whether he is a native or a sojourner, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening; then he shall be clean.
    16: But if he does not wash them or bathe his flesh, he shall bear his iniquity."

  Chapter 18.

    1: And the LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, I am the LORD your God.
    3: You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you dwelt, and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, to which I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes.
    4: You shall do my ordinances and keep my statutes and walk in them. I am the LORD your God.
    5: You shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances, by doing which a man shall live: I am the LORD.
    6: "None of you shall approach any one near of kin to him to uncover nakedness. I am the LORD.
    7: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
    8: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness.
    9: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home or born abroad.
    10: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness.
    11: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, begotten by your father, since she is your sister.
    12: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's near kinswoman.
    13: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's near kinswoman.
    14: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
    15: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
    16: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; she is your brother's nakedness.
    17: You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and of her daughter, and you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are your near kinswomen; it is wickedness.
    18: And you shall not take a woman as a rival wife to her sister, uncovering her nakedness while her sister is yet alive.
    19: "You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness.
    20: And you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife, and defile yourself with her.
    21: You shall not give any of your children to devote them by fire to Molech, and so profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
    22: You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination.
    23: And you shall not lie with any beast and defile yourself with it, neither shall any woman give herself to a beast to lie with it: it is perversion.
    24: "Do not defile yourselves by any of these things, for by all these the nations I am casting out before you defiled themselves;
    25: and the land became defiled, so that I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out its inhabitants.
    26: But you shall keep my statutes and my ordinances and do none of these abominations, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you
    27: (for all of these abominations the men of the land did, who were before you, so that the land became defiled);
    28: lest the land vomit you out, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
    29: For whoever shall do any of these abominations, the persons that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
    30: So keep my charge never to practice any of these abominable customs which were practiced before you, and never to defile yourselves by them: I am the LORD your God."

  Chapter 19.

    1: And the LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to all the congregation of the people of Israel, You shall be holy; for I the LORD your God am holy.
    3: Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
    4: Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves molten gods: I am the LORD your God.
    5: "When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the LORD, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted.
    6: It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, or on the morrow; and anything left over until the third day shall be burned with fire.
    7: If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it will not be accepted,
    8: and every one who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned a holy thing of the LORD; and that person shall be cut off from his people.
    9: "When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field to its very border, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest.
    10: And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the LORD your God.
    11: "You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another.
    12: And you shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
    13: "You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
    14: You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God: I am the LORD.
    15: "You shall do no injustice in judgment; you shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.
    16: You shall not go up and down as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand forth against the life of your neighbor: I am the LORD.
    17: "You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason with your neighbor, lest you bear sin because of him.
    18: You shall not take vengeance or bear any grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the LORD.
    19: "You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind; you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed; nor shall there come upon you a garment of cloth made of two kinds of stuff.
    20: "If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a slave, betrothed to another man and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, an inquiry shall be held. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free;
    21: but he shall bring a guilt offering for himself to the LORD, to the door of the tent of meeting, a ram for a guilt offering.
    22: And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before the LORD for his sin which he has committed; and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
    23: "When you come into the land and plant all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden; three years it shall be forbidden to you, it must not be eaten.
    24: And in the fourth year all their fruit shall be holy, an offering of praise to the LORD.
    25: But in the fifth year you may eat of their fruit, that they may yield more richly for you: I am the LORD your God.
    26: "You shall not eat any flesh with the blood in it. You shall not practice augury or witchcraft.
    27: You shall not round off the hair on your temples or mar the edges of your beard.
    28: You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh on account of the dead or tattoo any marks upon you: I am the LORD.
    29: "Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, lest the land fall into harlotry and the land become full of wickedness.
    30: You shall keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.
    31: "Do not turn to mediums or wizards; do not seek them out, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.
    32: "You shall rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God: I am the LORD.
    33: "When a stranger sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
    34: The stranger who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
    35: "You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity.
    36: You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin: I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
    37: And you shall observe all my statutes and all my ordinances, and do them: I am the LORD."

  Chapter 20.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, Any man of the people of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, who gives any of his children to Molech shall be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones.
    3: I myself will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given one of his children to Molech, defiling my sanctuary and profaning my holy name.
    4: And if the people of the land do at all hide their eyes from that man, when he gives one of his children to Molech, and do not put him to death,
    5: then I will set my face against that man and against his family, and will cut them off from among their people, him and all who follow him in playing the harlot after Molech.
    6: "If a person turns to mediums and wizards, playing the harlot after them, I will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.
    7: Consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am the LORD your God.
    8: Keep my statutes, and do them; I am the LORD who sanctify you.
    9: For every one who curses his father or his mother shall be put to death; he has cursed his father or his mother, his blood is upon him.
    10: "If a man commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall be put to death.
    11: The man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness; both of them shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
    12: If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall be put to death; they have committed incest, their blood is upon them.
    13: If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
    14: If a man takes a wife and her mother also, it is wickedness; they shall be burned with fire, both he and they, that there may be no wickedness among you.
    15: If a man lies with a beast, he shall be put to death; and you shall kill the beast.
    16: If a woman approaches any beast and lies with it, you shall kill the woman and the beast; they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
    17: "If a man takes his sister, a daughter of his father or a daughter of his mother, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a shameful thing, and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people; he has uncovered his sister's nakedness, he shall bear his iniquity.
    18: If a man lies with a woman having her sickness, and uncovers her nakedness, he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood; both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
    19: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister or of your father's sister, for that is to make naked one's near kin; they shall bear their iniquity.
    20: If a man lies with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness; they shall bear their sin, they shall die childless.
    21: If a man takes his brother's wife, it is impurity; he has uncovered his brother's nakedness, they shall be childless.
    22: "You shall therefore keep all my statutes and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land where I am bringing you to dwell may not vomit you out.
    23: And you shall not walk in the customs of the nation which I am casting out before you; for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
    24: But I have said to you, `You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess, a land flowing with milk and honey.' I am the LORD your God, who have separated you from the peoples.
    25: You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean bird and the clean; you shall not make yourselves abominable by beast or by bird or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have set apart for you to hold unclean.
    26: You shall be holy to me; for I the LORD am holy, and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be mine.
    27: "A man or a woman who is a medium or a wizard shall be put to death; they shall be stoned with stones, their blood shall be upon them."

End of day 28.