Day 265:

Reading Hosea, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Rejoice not, O Israel! Exult not like the peoples; for you have played the harlot, forsaking your God. You have loved a harlot's hire upon all threshing floors.
    2: Threshing floor and winevat shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail them.
    3: They shall not remain in the land of the LORD; but E'phraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
    4: They shall not pour libations of wine to the LORD; and they shall not please him with their sacrifices. Their bread shall be like mourners' bread; all who eat of it shall be defiled; for their bread shall be for their hunger only; it shall not come to the house of the LORD.
    5: What will you do on the day of appointed festival, and on the day of the feast of the LORD?
    6: For behold, they are going to Assyria; Egypt shall gather them, Memphis shall bury them. Nettles shall possess their precious things of silver; thorns shall be in their tents.
    7: The days of punishment have come, the days of recompense have come; Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad, because of your great iniquity and great hatred.
    8: The prophet is the watchman of E'phraim, the people of my God, yet a fowler's snare is on all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.
    9: They have deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of Gib'e-ah: he will remember their iniquity, he will punish their sins.
    10: Like grapes in the wilderness, I found Israel. Like the first fruit on the fig tree, in its first season, I saw your fathers. But they came to Ba'al-pe'or, and consecrated themselves to Ba'al, and became detestable like the thing they loved.
    11: E'phraim's glory shall fly away like a bird -- no birth, no pregnancy, no conception!
    12: Even if they bring up children, I will bereave them till none is left. Woe to them when I depart from them!
    13: E'phraim's sons, as I have seen, are destined for a prey; E'phraim must lead forth his sons to slaughter.
    14: Give them, O LORD -- what wilt thou give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
    15: Every evil of theirs is in Gilgal; there I began to hate them. Because of the wickedness of their deeds I will drive them out of my house. I will love them no more; all their princes are rebels.
    16: E'phraim is stricken, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit. Even though they bring forth, I will slay their beloved children.
    17: My God will cast them off, because they have not hearkened to him; they shall be wanderers among the nations.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Israel is a luxuriant vine that yields its fruit. The more his fruit increased the more altars he built; as his country improved he improved his pillars.
    2: Their heart is false; now they must bear their guilt. The LORD will break down their altars, and destroy their pillars.
    3: For now they will say: "We have no king, for we fear not the LORD, and a king, what could he do for us?"
    4: They utter mere words; with empty oaths they make covenants; so judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of the field.
    5: The inhabitants of Sama'ria tremble for the calf of Beth-a'ven. Its people shall mourn for it, and its idolatrous priests shall wail over it, over its glory which has departed from it.
    6: Yea, the thing itself shall be carried to Assyria, as tribute to the great king. E'phraim shall be put to shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his idol.
    7: Sama'ria's king shall perish, like a chip on the face of the waters.
    8: The high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed. Thorn and thistle shall grow up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us, and to the hills, Fall upon us.
    9: From the days of Gib'e-ah, you have sinned, O Israel; there they have continued. Shall not war overtake them in Gib'e-ah?
    10: I will come against the wayward people to chastise them; and nations shall be gathered against them when they are chastised for their double iniquity.
    11: E'phraim was a trained heifer that loved to thresh, and I spared her fair neck; but I will put E'phraim to the yoke, Judah must plow, Jacob must harrow for himself.
    12: Sow for yourselves righteousness, reap the fruit of steadfast love; break up your fallow ground, for it is the time to seek the LORD, that he may come and rain salvation upon you.
    13: You have plowed iniquity, you have reaped injustice, you have eaten the fruit of lies. Because you have trusted in your chariots and in the multitude of your warriors,
    14: therefore the tumult of war shall arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-ar'bel on the day of battle; mothers were dashed in pieces with their children.
    15: Thus it shall be done to you, O house of Israel, because of your great wickedness. In the storm the king of Israel shall be utterly cut off.

  Chapter 11.

    1: When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.
    2: The more I called them, the more they went from me; they kept sacrificing to the Ba'als, and burning incense to idols.
    3: Yet it was I who taught E'phraim to walk, I took them up in my arms; but they did not know that I healed them.
    4: I led them with cords of compassion, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one, who eases the yoke on their jaws, and I bent down to them and fed them.
    5: They shall return to the land of Egypt, and Assyria shall be their king, because they have refused to return to me.
    6: The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them in their fortresses.
    7: My people are bent on turning away from me; so they are appointed to the yoke, and none shall remove it.
    8: How can I give you up, O E'phraim! How can I hand you over, O Israel! How can I make you like Admah! How can I treat you like Zeboi'im! My heart recoils within me, my compassion grows warm and tender.
    9: I will not execute my fierce anger, I will not again destroy E'phraim; for I am God and not man, the Holy One in your midst, and I will not come to destroy.
    10: They shall go after the LORD, he will roar like a lion; yea, he will roar, and his sons shall come trembling from the west;
    11: they shall come trembling like birds from Egypt, and like doves from the land of Assyria; and I will return them to their homes, says the LORD.
    12: E'phraim has encompassed me with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit; but Judah is still known by God, and is faithful to the Holy One.

  Chapter 12.

    1: E'phraim herds the wind, and pursues the east wind all day long; they multiply falsehood and violence; they make a bargain with Assyria, and oil is carried to Egypt.
    2: The LORD has an indictment against Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways, and requite him according to his deeds.
    3: In the womb he took his brother by the heel, and in his manhood he strove with God.
    4: He strove with the angel and prevailed, he wept and sought his favor. He met God at Bethel, and there God spoke with him --
    5: the LORD the God of hosts, the LORD is his name:
    6: "So you, by the help of your God, return, hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your God."
    7: A trader, in whose hands are false balances, he loves to oppress.
    8: E'phraim has said, "Ah, but I am rich, I have gained wealth for myself": but all his riches can never offset the guilt he has incurred.
    9: I am the LORD your God from the land of Egypt; I will again make you dwell in tents, as in the days of the appointed feast.
    10: I spoke to the prophets; it was I who multiplied visions, and through the prophets gave parables.
    11: If there is iniquity in Gilead they shall surely come to nought; if in Gilgal they sacrifice bulls, their altars also shall be like stone heaps on the furrows of the field.
    12: (Jacob fled to the land of Aram, there Israel did service for a wife, and for a wife he herded sheep.)
    13: By a prophet the LORD brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was preserved.
    14: E'phraim has given bitter provocation; so his LORD will leave his bloodguilt upon him, and will turn back upon him his reproaches.

End of day 265.