Day 147:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: How long, O LORD? Wilt thou forget me for ever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me?
    2: How long must I bear pain in my soul, and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
    3: Consider and answer me, O LORD my God; lighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;
    4: lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed over him"; lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken.
    5: But I have trusted in thy steadfast love; my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation.
    6: I will sing to the LORD, because he has dealt bountifully with me.

  Chapter 14.

    1: The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none that does good.
    2: The LORD looks down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there are any that act wisely, that seek after God.
    3: They have all gone astray, they are all alike corrupt; there is none that does good, no, not one.
    4: Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the LORD?
    5: There they shall be in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous.
    6: You would confound the plans of the poor, but the LORD is his refuge.
    7: O that deliverance for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, Israel shall be glad.

  Chapter 15.

    1: O LORD, who shall sojourn in thy tent? Who shall dwell on thy holy hill?
    2: He who walks blamelessly, and does what is right, and speaks truth from his heart;
    3: who does not slander with his tongue, and does no evil to his friend, nor takes up a reproach against his neighbor;
    4: in whose eyes a reprobate is despised, but who honors those who fear the LORD; who swears to his own hurt and does not change;
    5: who does not put out his money at interest, and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Preserve me, O God, for in thee I take refuge.
    2: I say to the LORD, "Thou art my Lord; I have no good apart from thee."
    3: As for the saints in the land, they are the noble, in whom is all my delight.
    4: Those who choose another god multiply their sorrows; their libations of blood I will not pour out or take their names upon my lips.
    5: The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup; thou holdest my lot.
    6: The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.
    7: I bless the LORD who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me.
    8: I keep the LORD always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
    9: Therefore my heart is glad, and my soul rejoices; my body also dwells secure.
    10: For thou dost not give me up to Sheol, or let thy godly one see the Pit.
    11: Thou dost show me the path of life; in thy presence there is fulness of joy, in thy right hand are pleasures for evermore.

End of day 147.