Day 194:

Reading Song-of-Songs, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: I come to my garden, my sister, my bride, I gather my myrrh with my spice, I eat my honeycomb with my honey, I drink my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends, and drink: drink deeply, O lovers!
    2: I slept, but my heart was awake. Hark! my beloved is knocking. "Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my perfect one; for my head is wet with dew, my locks with the drops of the night."
    3: I had put off my garment, how could I put it on? I had bathed my feet, how could I soil them?
    4: My beloved put his hand to the latch, and my heart was thrilled within me.
    5: I arose to open to my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh, my fingers with liquid myrrh, upon the handles of the bolt.
    6: I opened to my beloved, but my beloved had turned and gone. My soul failed me when he spoke. I sought him, but found him not; I called him, but he gave no answer.
    7: The watchmen found me, as they went about in the city; they beat me, they wounded me, they took away my mantle, those watchmen of the walls.
    8: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him I am sick with love.
    9: What is your beloved more than another beloved, O fairest among women? What is your beloved more than another beloved, that you thus adjure us?
    10: My beloved is all radiant and ruddy, distinguished among ten thousand.
    11: His head is the finest gold; his locks are wavy, black as a raven.
    12: His eyes are like doves beside springs of water, bathed in milk, fitly set.
    13: His cheeks are like beds of spices, yielding fragrance. His lips are lilies, distilling liquid myrrh.
    14: His arms are rounded gold, set with jewels. His body is ivory work, encrusted with sapphires.
    15: His legs are alabaster columns, set upon bases of gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as the cedars.
    16: His speech is most sweet, and he is altogether desirable. This is my beloved and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Whither has your beloved gone, O fairest among women? Whither has your beloved turned, that we may seek him with you?
    2: My beloved has gone down to his garden, to the beds of spices, to pasture his flock in the gardens, and to gather lilies.
    3: I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine; he pastures his flock among the lilies.
    4: You are beautiful as Tirzah, my love, comely as Jerusalem, terrible as an army with banners.
    5: Turn away your eyes from me, for they disturb me -- Your hair is like a flock of goats, moving down the slopes of Gilead.
    6: Your teeth are like a flock of ewes, that have come up from the washing, all of them bear twins, not one among them is bereaved.
    7: Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
    8: There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, and maidens without number.
    9: My dove, my perfect one, is only one, the darling of her mother, flawless to her that bore her. The maidens saw her and called her happy; the queens and concubines also, and they praised her.
    10: "Who is this that looks forth like the dawn, fair as the moon, bright as the sun, terrible as an army with banners?"
    11: I went down to the nut orchard, to look at the blossoms of the valley, to see whether the vines had budded, whether the pomegranates were in bloom.
    12: Before I was aware, my fancy set me in a chariot beside my prince.
    13: Return, return, O Shu'lammite, return, return, that we may look upon you. Why should you look upon the Shu'lammite, as upon a dance before two armies?

  Chapter 7.

    1: How graceful are your feet in sandals, O queenly maiden! Your rounded thighs are like jewels, the work of a master hand.
    2: Your navel is a rounded bowl that never lacks mixed wine. Your belly is a heap of wheat, encircled with lilies.
    3: Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.
    4: Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-rab'bim. Your nose is like a tower of Lebanon, overlooking Damascus.
    5: Your head crowns you like Carmel, and your flowing locks are like purple; a king is held captive in the tresses.
    6: How fair and pleasant you are, O loved one, delectable maiden!
    7: You are stately as a palm tree, and your breasts are like its clusters.
    8: I say I will climb the palm tree and lay hold of its branches. Oh, may your breasts be like clusters of the vine, and the scent of your breath like apples,
    9: and your kisses like the best wine that goes down smoothly, gliding over lips and teeth.
    10: I am my beloved's, and his desire is for me.
    11: Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the fields, and lodge in the villages;
    12: let us go out early to the vineyards, and see whether the vines have budded, whether the grape blossoms have opened and the pomegranates are in bloom. There I will give you my love.
    13: The mandrakes give forth fragrance, and over our doors are all choice fruits, new as well as old, which I have laid up for you, O my beloved.

  Chapter 8.

    1: O that you were like a brother to me, that nursed at my mother's breast! If I met you outside, I would kiss you, and none would despise me.
    2: I would lead you and bring you into the house of my mother, and into the chamber of her that conceived me. I would give you spiced wine to drink, the juice of my pomegranates.
    3: O that his left hand were under my head, and that his right hand embraced me!
    4: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you stir not up nor awaken love until it please.
    5: Who is that coming up from the wilderness, leaning upon her beloved? Under the apple tree I awakened you. There your mother was in travail with you, there she who bore you was in travail.
    6: Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm; for love is strong as death, jealousy is cruel as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, a most vehement flame.
    7: Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, it would be utterly scorned.
    8: We have a little sister, and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister, on the day when she is spoken for?
    9: If she is a wall, we will build upon her a battlement of silver; but if she is a door, we will enclose her with boards of cedar.
    10: I was a wall, and my breasts were like towers; then I was in his eyes as one who brings peace.
    11: Solomon had a vineyard at Ba'al-ha'mon; he let out the vineyard to keepers; each one was to bring for its fruit a thousand pieces of silver.
    12: My vineyard, my very own, is for myself; you, O Solomon, may have the thousand, and the keepers of the fruit two hundred.
    13: O you who dwell in the gardens, my companions are listening for your voice; let me hear it.
    14: Make haste, my beloved, and be like a gazelle or a young stag upon the mountains of spices.

End of day 194.