Day 231:

Reading Jeremiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Run to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, look and take note! Search her squares to see if you can find a man, one who does justice and seeks truth; that I may pardon her.
    2: Though they say, "As the LORD lives," yet they swear falsely.
    3: O LORD, do not thy eyes look for truth? Thou hast smitten them, but they felt no anguish; thou hast consumed them, but they refused to take correction. They have made their faces harder than rock; they have refused to repent.
    4: Then I said, "These are only the poor, they have no sense; for they do not know the way of the LORD, the law of their God.
    5: I will go to the great, and will speak to them; for they know the way of the LORD, the law of their God." But they all alike had broken the yoke, they had burst the bonds.
    6: Therefore a lion from the forest shall slay them, a wolf from the desert shall destroy them. A leopard is watching against their cities, every one who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces; because their transgressions are many, their apostasies are great.
    7: "How can I pardon you? Your children have forsaken me, and have sworn by those who are no gods. When I fed them to the full, they committed adultery and trooped to the houses of harlots.
    8: They were well-fed lusty stallions, each neighing for his neighbor's wife.
    9: Shall I not punish them for these things? says the LORD; and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?
    10: "Go up through her vine-rows and destroy, but make not a full end; strip away her branches, for they are not the LORD's.
    11: For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been utterly faithless to me, says the LORD.
    12: They have spoken falsely of the LORD, and have said, `He will do nothing; no evil will come upon us, nor shall we see sword or famine.
    13: The prophets will become wind; the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them!'"
    14: Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts: "Because they have spoken this word, behold, I am making my words in your mouth a fire, and this people wood, and the fire shall devour them.
    15: Behold, I am bringing upon you a nation from afar, O house of Israel, says the LORD. It is an enduring nation, it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what they say.
    16: Their quiver is like an open tomb, they are all mighty men.
    17: They shall eat up your harvest and your food; they shall eat up your sons and your daughters; they shall eat up your flocks and your herds; they shall eat up your vines and your fig trees; your fortified cities in which you trust they shall destroy with the sword."
    18: "But even in those days, says the LORD, I will not make a full end of you.
    19: And when your people say, `Why has the LORD our God done all these things to us?' you shall say to them, `As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your land, so you shall serve strangers in a land that is not yours.'"
    20: Declare this in the house of Jacob, proclaim it in Judah:
    21: "Hear this, O foolish and senseless people, who have eyes, but see not, who have ears, but hear not.
    22: Do you not fear me? says the LORD; Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the bound for the sea, a perpetual barrier which it cannot pass; though the waves toss, they cannot prevail, though they roar, they cannot pass over it.
    23: But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart; they have turned aside and gone away.
    24: They do not say in their hearts, `Let us fear the LORD our God, who gives the rain in its season, the autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest.'
    25: Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you.
    26: For wicked men are found among my people; they lurk like fowlers lying in wait. They set a trap; they catch men.
    27: Like a basket full of birds, their houses are full of treachery; therefore they have become great and rich,
    28: they have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in deeds of wickedness; they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy.
    29: Shall I not punish them for these things? says the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?"
    30: An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land:
    31: the prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule at their direction; my people love to have it so, but what will you do when the end comes?

  Chapter 6.

    1: Flee for safety, O people of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem! Blow the trumpet in Teko'a, and raise a signal on Beth-hacche'rem; for evil looms out of the north, and great destruction.
    2: The comely and delicately bred I will destroy, the daughter of Zion.
    3: Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her; they shall pitch their tents around her, they shall pasture, each in his place.
    4: "Prepare war against her; up, and let us attack at noon!" "Woe to us, for the day declines, for the shadows of evening lengthen!"
    5: "Up, and let us attack by night, and destroy her palaces!"
    6: For thus says the LORD of hosts: "Hew down her trees; cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This is the city which must be punished; there is nothing but oppression within her.
    7: As a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her wickedness; violence and destruction are heard within her; sickness and wounds are ever before me.
    8: Be warned, O Jerusalem, lest I be alienated from you; lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited land."
    9: Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Glean thoroughly as a vine the remnant of Israel; like a grape-gatherer pass your hand again over its branches."
    10: To whom shall I speak and give warning, that they may hear? Behold, their ears are closed, they cannot listen; behold, the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn, they take no pleasure in it.
    11: Therefore I am full of the wrath of the LORD; I am weary of holding it in. "Pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the gatherings of young men, also; both husband and wife shall be taken, the old folk and the very aged.
    12: Their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together; for I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land," says the LORD.
    13: "For from the least to the greatest of them, every one is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to priest, every one deals falsely.
    14: They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, `Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
    15: Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them, they shall be overthrown," says the LORD.
    16: Thus says the LORD: "Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, `We will not walk in it.'
    17: I set watchmen over you, saying, `Give heed to the sound of the trumpet!' But they said, `We will not give heed.'
    18: Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them.
    19: Hear, O earth; behold, I am bringing evil upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they have not given heed to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
    20: To what purpose does frankincense come to me from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.
    21: Therefore thus says the LORD: `Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against which they shall stumble; fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend shall perish.'"
    22: Thus says the LORD: "Behold, a people is coming from the north country, a great nation is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth.
    23: They lay hold on bow and spear, they are cruel and have no mercy, the sound of them is like the roaring sea; they ride upon horses, set in array as a man for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion!"
    24: We have heard the report of it, our hands fall helpless; anguish has taken hold of us, pain as of a woman in travail.
    25: Go not forth into the field, nor walk on the road; for the enemy has a sword, terror is on every side.
    26: O daughter of my people, gird on sackcloth, and roll in ashes; make mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation; for suddenly the destroyer will come upon us.
    27: "I have made you an assayer and tester among my people, that you may know and assay their ways.
    28: They are all stubbornly rebellious, going about with slanders; they are bronze and iron, all of them act corruptly.
    29: The bellows blow fiercely, the lead is consumed by the fire; in vain the refining goes on, for the wicked are not removed.
    30: Refuse silver they are called, for the LORD has rejected them."

  Chapter 7.

    1: The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
    2: "Stand in the gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of the LORD, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the LORD.
    3: Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your doings, and I will let you dwell in this place.
    4: Do not trust in these deceptive words: `This is the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD.'
    5: "For if you truly amend your ways and your doings, if you truly execute justice one with another,
    6: if you do not oppress the alien, the fatherless or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own hurt,
    7: then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers for ever.
    8: "Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail.
    9: Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, burn incense to Ba'al, and go after other gods that you have not known,
    10: and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, `We are delivered!' -- only to go on doing all these abominations?
    11: Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself have seen it, says the LORD.
    12: Go now to my place that was in Shiloh, where I made my name dwell at first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel.
    13: And now, because you have done all these things, says the LORD, and when I spoke to you persistently you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer,
    14: therefore I will do to the house which is called by my name, and in which you trust, and to the place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
    15: And I will cast you out of my sight, as I cast out all your kinsmen, all the offspring of E'phraim.
    16: "As for you, do not pray for this people, or lift up cry or prayer for them, and do not intercede with me, for I do not hear you.
    17: Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
    18: The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, and the women knead dough, to make cakes for the queen of heaven; and they pour out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
    19: Is it I whom they provoke? says the LORD. Is it not themselves, to their own confusion?
    20: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, my anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place, upon man and beast, upon the trees of the field and the fruit of the ground; it will burn and not be quenched."
    21: Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: "Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh.
    22: For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices.
    23: But this command I gave them, `Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people; and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.'
    24: But they did not obey or incline their ear, but walked in their own counsels and the stubbornness of their evil hearts, and went backward and not forward.
    25: From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent all my servants the prophets to them, day after day;
    26: yet they did not listen to me, or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck. They did worse than their fathers.
    27: "So you shall speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. You shall call to them, but they will not answer you.
    28: And you shall say to them, `This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, and did not accept discipline; truth has perished; it is cut off from their lips.
    29: Cut off your hair and cast it away; raise a lamentation on the bare heights, for the LORD has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.'
    30: "For the sons of Judah have done evil in my sight, says the LORD; they have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
    31: And they have built the high place of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind.
    32: Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when it will no more be called Topheth, or the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of Slaughter: for they will bury in Topheth, because there is no room elsewhere.
    33: And the dead bodies of this people will be food for the birds of the air, and for the beasts of the earth; and none will frighten them away.
    34: And I will make to cease from the cities of Judah and from the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land shall become a waste.

  Chapter 8.

    1: "At that time, says the LORD, the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its princes, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be brought out of their tombs;
    2: and they shall be spread before the sun and the moon and all the host of heaven, which they have loved and served, which they have gone after, and which they have sought and worshiped; and they shall not be gathered or buried; they shall be as dung on the surface of the ground.
    3: Death shall be preferred to life by all the remnant that remains of this evil family in all the places where I have driven them, says the LORD of hosts.
    4: "You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD: When men fall, do they not rise again? If one turns away, does he not return?
    5: Why then has this people turned away in perpetual backsliding? They hold fast to deceit, they refuse to return.
    6: I have given heed and listened, but they have not spoken aright; no man repents of his wickedness, saying, `What have I done?' Every one turns to his own course, like a horse plunging headlong into battle.
    7: Even the stork in the heavens knows her times; and the turtledove, swallow, and crane keep the time of their coming; but my people know not the ordinance of the LORD.
    8: "How can you say, `We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us'? But, behold, the false pen of the scribes has made it into a lie.
    9: The wise men shall be put to shame, they shall be dismayed and taken; lo, they have rejected the word of the LORD, and what wisdom is in them?
    10: Therefore I will give their wives to others and their fields to conquerors, because from the least to the greatest every one is greedy for unjust gain; from prophet to priest every one deals falsely.
    11: They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, `Peace, peace,' when there is no peace.
    12: Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among the fallen; when I punish them, they shall be overthrown, says the LORD.
    13: When I would gather them, says the LORD, there are no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree; even the leaves are withered, and what I gave them has passed away from them."
    14: Why do we sit still? Gather together, let us go into the fortified cities and perish there; for the LORD our God has doomed us to perish, and has given us poisoned water to drink, because we have sinned against the LORD.
    15: We looked for peace, but no good came, for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
    16: "The snorting of their horses is heard from Dan; at the sound of the neighing of their stallions the whole land quakes. They come and devour the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it.
    17: For behold, I am sending among you serpents, adders which cannot be charmed, and they shall bite you," says the LORD.
    18: My grief is beyond healing, my heart is sick within me.
    19: Hark, the cry of the daughter of my people from the length and breadth of the land: "Is the LORD not in Zion? Is her King not in her?" "Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images, and with their foreign idols?"
    20: "The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved."
    21: For the wound of the daughter of my people is my heart wounded, I mourn, and dismay has taken hold on me.
    22: Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my people not been restored?

End of day 231.