Day 182:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:
    2: That men may know wisdom and instruction, understand words of insight,
    3: receive instruction in wise dealing, righteousness, justice, and equity;
    4: that prudence may be given to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth --
    5: the wise man also may hear and increase in learning, and the man of understanding acquire skill,
    6: to understand a proverb and a figure, the words of the wise and their riddles.
    7: The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction.
    8: Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and reject not your mother's teaching;
    9: for they are a fair garland for your head, and pendants for your neck.
    10: My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent.
    11: If they say, "Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us wantonly ambush the innocent;
    12: like Sheol let us swallow them alive and whole, like those who go down to the Pit;
    13: we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with spoil;
    14: throw in your lot among us, we will all have one purse" --
    15: my son, do not walk in the way with them, hold back your foot from their paths;
    16: for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood.
    17: For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird;
    18: but these men lie in wait for their own blood, they set an ambush for their own lives.
    19: Such are the ways of all who get gain by violence; it takes away the life of its possessors.
    20: Wisdom cries aloud in the street; in the markets she raises her voice;
    21: on the top of the walls she cries out; at the entrance of the city gates she speaks:
    22: "How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge?
    23: Give heed to my reproof; behold, I will pour out my thoughts to you; I will make my words known to you.
    24: Because I have called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded,
    25: and you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof,
    26: I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when panic strikes you,
    27: when panic strikes you like a storm, and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you.
    28: Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently but will not find me.
    29: Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the LORD,
    30: would have none of my counsel, and despised all my reproof,
    31: therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way and be sated with their own devices.
    32: For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacence of fools destroys them;
    33: but he who listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease, without dread of evil."

  Chapter 2.

    1: My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you,
    2: making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding;
    3: yes, if you cry out for insight and raise your voice for understanding,
    4: if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures;
    5: then you will understand the fear of the LORD and find the knowledge of God.
    6: For the LORD gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding;
    7: he stores up sound wisdom for the upright; he is a shield to those who walk in integrity,
    8: guarding the paths of justice and preserving the way of his saints.
    9: Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path;
    10: for wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul;
    11: discretion will watch over you; understanding will guard you;
    12: delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech,
    13: who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness,
    14: who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil;
    15: men whose paths are crooked, and who are devious in their ways.
    16: You will be saved from the loose woman, from the adventuress with her smooth words,
    17: who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God;
    18: for her house sinks down to death, and her paths to the shades;
    19: none who go to her come back nor do they regain the paths of life.
    20: So you will walk in the way of good men and keep to the paths of the righteous.
    21: For the upright will inhabit the land, and men of integrity will remain in it;
    22: but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it.

  Chapter 3.

    1: My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments;
    2: for length of days and years of life and abundant welfare will they give you.
    3: Let not loyalty and faithfulness forsake you; bind them about your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart.
    4: So you will find favor and good repute in the sight of God and man.
    5: Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not rely on your own insight.
    6: In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.
    7: Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the LORD, and turn away from evil.
    8: It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones.
    9: Honor the LORD with your substance and with the first fruits of all your produce;
    10: then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine.
    11: My son, do not despise the LORD's discipline or be weary of his reproof,
    12: for the LORD reproves him whom he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights.
    13: Happy is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gets understanding,
    14: for the gain from it is better than gain from silver and its profit better than gold.
    15: She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her.
    16: Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
    17: Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
    18: She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her; those who hold her fast are called happy.
    19: The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens;
    20: by his knowledge the deeps broke forth, and the clouds drop down the dew.
    21: My son, keep sound wisdom and discretion; let them not escape from your sight,
    22: and they will be life for your soul and adornment for your neck.
    23: Then you will walk on your way securely and your foot will not stumble.
    24: If you sit down, you will not be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.
    25: Do not be afraid of sudden panic, or of the ruin of the wicked, when it comes;
    26: for the LORD will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught.
    27: Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it.
    28: Do not say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again, tomorrow I will give it" -- when you have it with you.
    29: Do not plan evil against your neighbor who dwells trustingly beside you.
    30: Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm.
    31: Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways;
    32: for the perverse man is an abomination to the LORD, but the upright are in his confidence.
    33: The LORD's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the abode of the righteous.
    34: Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he shows favor.
    35: The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight;
    2: for I give you good precepts: do not forsake my teaching.
    3: When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother,
    4: he taught me, and said to me, "Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live;
    5: do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Get wisdom; get insight.
    6: Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you.
    7: The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight.
    8: Prize her highly, and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.
    9: She will place on your head a fair garland; she will bestow on you a beautiful crown."
    10: Hear, my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many.
    11: I have taught you the way of wisdom; I have led you in the paths of uprightness.
    12: When you walk, your step will not be hampered; and if you run, you will not stumble.
    13: Keep hold of instruction, do not let go; guard her, for she is your life.
    14: Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of evil men.
    15: Avoid it; do not go on it; turn away from it and pass on.
    16: For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong; they are robbed of sleep unless they have made some one stumble.
    17: For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence.
    18: But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day.
    19: The way of the wicked is like deep darkness; they do not know over what they stumble.
    20: My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings.
    21: Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart.
    22: For they are life to him who finds them, and healing to all his flesh.
    23: Keep your heart with all vigilance; for from it flow the springs of life.
    24: Put away from you crooked speech, and put devious talk far from you.
    25: Let your eyes look directly forward, and your gaze be straight before you.
    26: Take heed to the path of your feet, then all your ways will be sure.
    27: Do not swerve to the right or to the left; turn your foot away from evil.

End of day 182.