Day 128:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Simon heard that Trypho had assembled a large army to invade the land of Judah and destroy it,
    2: and he saw that the people were trembling and fearful. So he went up to Jerusalem, and gathering the people together
    3: he encouraged them, saying to them, "You yourselves know what great things I and my brothers and the house of my father have done for the laws and the sanctuary; you know also the wars and the difficulties which we have seen.
    4: By reason of this all my brothers have perished for the sake of Israel, and I alone am left.
    5: And now, far be it from me to spare my life in any time of distress, for I am not better than my brothers.
    6: But I will avenge my nation and the sanctuary and your wives and children, for all the nations have gathered together out of hatred to destroy us."
    7: The spirit of the people was rekindled when they heard these words,
    8: and they answered in a loud voice, "You are our leader in place of Judas and Jonathan your brother.
    9: Fight our battles, and all that you say to us we will do."
    10: So he assembled all the warriors and hastened to complete the walls of Jerusalem, and he fortified it on every side.
    11: He sent Jonathan the son of Absalom to Joppa, and with him a considerable army; he drove out its occupants and remained there.
    12: Then Trypho departed from Ptolemais with a large army to invade the land of Judah, and Jonathan was with him under guard.
    13: And Simon encamped in Adida, facing the plain.
    14: Trypho learned that Simon had risen up in place of Jonathan his brother, and that he was about to join battle with him, so he sent envoys to him and said,
    15: "It is for the money that Jonathan your brother owed the royal treasury, in connection with the offices he held, that we are detaining him.
    16: Send now a hundred talents of silver and two of his sons as hostages, so that when released he will not revolt against us, and we will release him."
    17: Simon knew that they were speaking deceitfully to him, but he sent to get the money and the sons, lest he arouse great hostility among the people, who might say,
    18: "Because Simon did not send him the money and the sons, he perished."
    19: So he sent the sons and the hundred talents, but Trypho broke his word and did not release Jonathan.
    20: After this Trypho came to invade the country and destroy it, and he circled around by the way to Adora. But Simon and his army kept marching along opposite him to every place he went.
    21: Now the men in the citadel kept sending envoys to Trypho urging him to come to them by way of the wilderness and to send them food.
    22: So Trypho got all his cavalry ready to go, but that night a very heavy snow fell, and he did not go because of the snow. He marched off and went into the land of Gilead.
    23: When he approached Baskama, he killed Jonathan, and he was buried there.
    24: Then Trypho turned back and departed to his own land.
    25: And Simon sent and took the bones of Jonathan his brother, and buried him in Modein, the city of his fathers.
    26: All Israel bewailed him with great lamentation, and mourned for him many days.
    27: And Simon built a monument over the tomb of his father and his brothers; he made it high that it might be seen, with polished stone at the front and back.
    28: He also erected seven pyramids, opposite one another, for his father and mother and four brothers.
    29: And for the pyramids he devised an elaborate setting, erecting about them great columns, and upon the columns he put suits of armor for a permanent memorial, and beside the suits of armor carved ships, so that they could be seen by all who sail the sea.
    30: This is the tomb which he built in Modein; it remains to this day.
    31: Trypho dealt treacherously with the young king Antiochus; he killed him
    32: and became king in his place, putting on the crown of Asia; and he brought great calamity upon the land.
    33: But Simon built up the strongholds of Judea and walled them all around, with high towers and great walls and gates and bolts, and he stored food in the strongholds.
    34: Simon also chose men and sent them to Demetrius the king with a request to grant relief to the country, for all that Trypho did was to plunder.
    35: Demetrius the king sent him a favorable reply to this request, and wrote him a letter as follows,
    36: "King Demetrius to Simon, the high priest and friend of kings, and to the elders and nation of the Jews, greeting.
    37: We have received the gold crown and the palm branch which you sent, and we are ready to make a general peace with you and to write to our officials to grant you release from tribute.
    38: All the grants that we have made to you remain valid, and let the strongholds that you have built be your possession.
    39: We pardon any errors and offenses committed to this day, and cancel the crown tax which you owe; and whatever other tax has been collected in Jerusalem shall be collected no longer.
    40: And if any of you are qualified to be enrolled in our bodyguard, let them be enrolled, and let there be peace between us."
    41: In the one hundred and seventieth year the yoke of the Gentiles was removed from Israel,
    42: and the people began to write in their documents and contracts, "In the first year of Simon the great high priest and commander and leader of the Jews."
    43: In those days Simon encamped against Gazara and surrounded it with troops. He made a siege engine, brought it up to the city, and battered and captured one tower.
    44: The men in the siege engine leaped out into the city, and a great tumult arose in the city.
    45: The men in the city, with their wives and children, went up on the wall with their clothes rent, and they cried out with a loud voice, asking Simon to make peace with them;
    46: they said, "Do not treat us according to our wicked acts but according to your mercy."
    47: So Simon reached an agreement with them and stopped fighting against them. But he expelled them from the city and cleansed the houses in which the idols were, and then entered it with hymns and praise.
    48: He cast out of it all uncleanness, and settled in it men who observed the law. He also strengthened its fortifications and built in it a house for himself.
    49: The men in the citadel at Jerusalem were prevented from going out to the country and back to buy and sell. So they were very hungry, and many of them perished from famine.
    50: Then they cried to Simon to make peace with them, and he did so. But he expelled them from there and cleansed the citadel from its pollutions.
    51: On the twenty-third day of the second month, in the one hundred and seventy-first year, the Jews entered it with praise and palm branches, and with harps and cymbals and stringed instruments, and with hymns and songs, because a great enemy had been crushed and removed from Israel.
    52: And Simon decreed that every year they should celebrate this day with rejoicing. He strengthened the fortifications of the temple hill alongside the citadel, and he and his men dwelt there.
    53: And Simon saw that John his son had reached manhood, so he made him commander of all the forces, and he dwelt in Gazara.

  Chapter 14.

    1: In the one hundred and seventy-second year Demetrius the king assembled his forces and marched into Media to secure help, so that he could make war against Trypho.
    2: When Arsaces the king of Persia and Media heard that Demetrius had invaded his territory, he sent one of his commanders to take him alive.
    3: And he went and defeated the army of Demetrius, and seized him and took him to Arsaces, who put him under guard.
    4: The land had rest all the days of Simon. He sought the good of his nation; his rule was pleasing to them, as was the honor shown him, all his days.
    5: To crown all his honors he took Joppa for a harbor, and opened a way to the isles of the sea.
    6: He extended the borders of his nation, and gained full control of the country.
    7: He gathered a host of captives; he ruled over Gazara and Beth-zur and the citadel, and he removed its uncleanness from it; and there was none to oppose him.
    8: They tilled their land in peace; the ground gave its increase, and the trees of the plains their fruit.
    9: Old men sat in the streets; they all talked together of good things; and the youths donned the glories and garments of war.
    10: He supplied the cities with food, and furnished them with the means of defense, till his renown spread to the ends of the earth.
    11: He established peace in the land, and Israel rejoiced with great joy.
    12: Each man sat under his vine and his fig tree, and there was none to make them afraid.
    13: No one was left in the land to fight them, and the kings were crushed in those days.
    14: He strengthened all the humble of his people; he sought out the law, and did away with every lawless and wicked man.
    15: He made the sanctuary glorious, and added to the vessels of the sanctuary.
    16: It was heard in Rome, and as far away as Sparta, that Jonathan had died, and they were deeply grieved.
    17: When they heard that Simon his brother had become high priest in his place, and that he was ruling over the country and the cities in it,
    18: they wrote to him on bronze tablets to renew with him the friendship and alliance which they had established with Judas and Jonathan his brothers.
    19: And these were read before the assembly in Jerusalem.
    20: This is a copy of the letter which the Spartans sent: "The rulers and the city of the Spartans to Simon the high priest and to the elders and the priests and the rest of the Jewish people, our brethren, greeting.
    21: The envoys who were sent to our people have told us about your glory and honor, and we rejoiced at their coming.
    22: And what they said we have recorded in our public decrees, as follows, `Numenius the son of Antiochus and Antipater the son of Jason, envoys of the Jews, have come to us to renew their friendship with us.
    23: It has pleased our people to receive these men with honor and to put a copy of their words in the public archives, so that the people of the Spartans may have a record of them. And they have sent a copy of this to Simon the high priest.'"
    24: After this Simon sent Numenius to Rome with a large gold shield weighing a thousand minas, to confirm the alliance with the Romans.
    25: When the people heard these things they said, "How shall we thank Simon and his sons?
    26: For he and his brothers and the house of his father have stood firm; they have fought and repulsed Israel's enemies and established its freedom."
    27: So they made a record on bronze tablets and put it upon pillars on Mount Zion. This is a copy of what they wrote: "On the eighteenth day of Elul, in the one hundred and seventy-second year, which is the third year of Simon the great high priest,
    28: in Asaramel, in the great assembly of the priests and the people and the rulers of the nation and the elders of the country, the following was proclaimed to us:
    29: "Since wars often occurred in the country, Simon the son of Mattathias, a priest of the sons of Joarib, and his brothers, exposed themselves to danger and resisted the enemies of their nation, in order that their sanctuary and the law might be perserved; and they brought great glory to their nation.
    30: Jonathan rallied the nation, and became their high priest, and was gathered to his people.
    31: And when their enemies decided to invade their country and lay hands on their sanctuary,
    32: then Simon rose up and fought for his nation. He spent great sums of his own money; he armed the men of his nation's forces and paid them wages.
    33: He fortified the cities of Judea, and Beth-zur on the borders of Judea, where formerly the arms of the enemy had been stored, and he placed there a garrison of Jews.
    34: He also fortified Joppa, which is by the sea, and Gazara, which is on the borders of Azotus, where the enemy formerly dwelt. He settled Jews there, and provided in those cities whatever was necessary for their restoration.
    35: "The people saw Simon's faithfulness and the glory which he had resolved to win for his nation, and they made him their leader and high priest, because he had done all these things and because of the justice and loyalty which he had maintained toward his nation. He sought in every way to exalt his people.
    36: And in his days things prospered in his hands, so that the Gentiles were put out of the country, as were also the men in the city of David in Jerusalem, who had built themselves a citadel from which they used to sally forth and defile the environs of the sanctuary and do great damage to its purity.
    37: He settled Jews in it, and fortified it for the safety of the country and of the city, and built the walls of Jerusalem higher.
    38: "In view of these things King Demetrius confirmed him in the high priesthood,
    39: and he made him one of the king's friends and paid him high honors.
    40: For he had heard that the Jews were addressed by the Romans as friends and allies and brethren, and that the Romans had received the envoys of Simon with honor.
    41: "And the Jews and their priests decided that Simon should be their leader and high priest for ever, until a trustworthy prophet should arise,
    42: and that he should be governor over them and that he should take charge of the sanctuary and appoint men over its tasks and over the country and the weapons and the strongholds, and that he should take charge of the sanctuary,
    43: and that he should be obeyed by all, and that all contracts in the country should be written in his name, and that he should be clothed in purple and wear gold.
    44: "And none of the people or priests shall be permitted to nullify any of these decisions or to oppose what he says, or to convene an assembly in the country without his permission, or to be clothed in purple or put on a gold buckle.
    45: Whoever acts contrary to these decisions or nullifies any of them shall be liable to punishment."
    46: And all the people agreed to grant Simon the right to act in accord with these decisions.
    47: So Simon accepted and agreed to be high priest, to be commander and ethnarch of the Jews and priests, and to be protector of them all.
    48: And they gave orders to inscribe this decree upon bronze tablets, to put them up in a conspicuous place in the precincts of the sanctuary,
    49: and to deposit copies of them in the treasury, so that Simon and his sons might have them.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Antiochus, the son of Demetrius the king, sent a letter from the islands of the sea to Simon, the priest and ethnarch of the Jews, and to all the nation;
    2: its contents were as follows: "King Antiochus to Simon the high priest and ethnarch and to the nation of the Jews, greeting.
    3: Whereas certain pestilent men have gained control of the kingdom of our fathers, and I intend to lay claim to the kingdom so that I may restore it as it formerly was, and have recruited a host of mercenary troops and have equipped warships,
    4: and intend to make a landing in the country so that I may proceed against those who have destroyed our country and those who have devastated many cities in my kingdom,
    5: now therefore I confirm to you all the tax remissions that the kings before me have granted you, and release from all the other payments from which they have released you.
    6: I permit you to mint your own coinage as money for your country,
    7: and I grant freedom to Jerusalem and the sanctuary. All the weapons which you have prepared and the strongholds which you have built and now hold shall remain yours.
    8: Every debt you owe to the royal treasury and any such future debts shall be canceled for you from henceforth and for all time.
    9: When we gain control of our kingdom, we will bestow great honor upon you and your nation and the temple, so that your glory will become manifest in all the earth."
    10: In the one hundred and seventy-fourth year Antiochus set out and invaded the land of his fathers. All the troops rallied to him, so that there were few with Trypho.
    11: Antiochus pursued him, and he came in his flight to Dor, which is by the sea;
    12: for he knew that troubles had converged upon him, and his troops had deserted him.
    13: So Antiochus encamped against Dor, and with him were a hundred and twenty thousand warriors and eight thousand cavalry.
    14: He surrounded the city, and the ships joined battle from the sea; he pressed the city hard from land and sea, and permitted no one to leave or enter it.
    15: Then Numenius and his companions arrived from Rome, with letters to the kings and countries, in which the following was written:
    16: "Lucius, consul of the Romans, to King Ptolemy, greeting.
    17: The envoys of the Jews have come to us as our friends and allies to renew our ancient friendship and alliance. They had been sent by Simon the high priest and by the people of the Jews,
    18: and have brought a gold shield weighing a thousand minas.
    19: We therefore have decided to write to the kings and countries that they should not seek their harm or make war against them and their cities and their country, or make alliance with those who war against them.
    20: And it has seemed good to us to accept the shield from them.
    21: Therefore if any pestilent men have fled to you from their country, hand them over to Simon the high priest, that he may punish them according to their law."
    22: The consul wrote the same thing to Demetrius the king and to Attalus and Ariarathes and Arsaces,
    23: and to all the countries, and to Sampsames, and to the Spartans, and to Delos, and to Myndos, and to Sicyon, and to Caria, and to Samos, and to Pamphylia, and to Lycia, and to Halicarnassus, and to Rhodes, and to Phaselis, and to Cos, and to Side, and to Aradus and Gortyna and Cnidus and Cyprus and Cyrene.
    24: They also sent a copy of these things to Simon the high priest.
    25: Antiochus the king besieged Dor anew, continually throwing his forces against it and making engines of war; and he shut Trypho up and kept him from going out or in.
    26: And Simon sent to Antiochus two thousand picked men, to fight for him, and silver and gold and much military equipment.
    27: But he refused to receive them, and he broke all the agreements he formerly had made with Simon, and became estranged from him.
    28: He sent to him Athenobius, one of his friends, to confer with him, saying, "You hold control of Joppa and Gazara and the citadel in Jerusalem; they are cities of my kingdom.
    29: You have devastated their territory, you have done great damage in the land, and you have taken possession of many places in my kingdom.
    30: Now then, hand over the cities which you have seized and the tribute money of the places which you have conquered outside the borders of Judea;
    31: or else give me for them five hundred talents of silver, and for the destruction that you have caused and the tribute money of the cities, five hundred talents more. Otherwise we will come and conquer you."
    32: So Athenobius the friend of the king came to Jerusalem, and when he saw the splendor of Simon, and the sideboard with its gold and silver plate, and his great magnificence, he was amazed. He reported to him the words of the king,
    33: but Simon gave him this reply: "We have neither taken foreign land nor seized foreign property, but only the inheritance of our fathers, which at one time had been unjustly taken by our enemies.
    34: Now that we have the opportunity, we are firmly holding the inheritance of our fathers.
    35: As for Joppa and Gazara, which you demand, they were causing great damage among the people and to our land; for them we will give you a hundred talents." Athenobius did not answer him a word,
    36: but returned in wrath to the king and reported to him these words and the splendor of Simon and all that he had seen. And the king was greatly angered.
    37: Now Trypho embarked on a ship and escaped to Orthosia.
    38: Then the king made Cendebeus commander-in-chief of the coastal country, and gave him troops of infantry and cavalry.
    39: He commanded him to encamp against Judea, and commanded him to build up Kedron and fortify its gates, and to make war on the people; but the king pursued Trypho.
    40: So Cendebeus came to Jamnia and began to provoke the people and invade Judea and take the people captive and kill them.
    41: He built up Kedron and stationed there horsemen and troops, so that they might go out and make raids along the highways of Judea, as the king had ordered him.

  Chapter 16.

    1: John went up from Gazara and reported to Simon his father what Cendebeus had done.
    2: And Simon called in his two older sons Judas and John, and said to them: "I and my brothers and the house of my father have fought the wars of Israel from our youth until this day, and things have prospered in our hands so that we have delivered Israel many times.
    3: But now I have grown old, and you by His mercy are mature in years. Take my place and my brother's, and go out and fight for our nation, and may the help which comes from Heaven be with you."
    4: So John chose out of the country twenty thousand warriors and horsemen, and they marched against Cendebeus and camped for the night in Modein.
    5: Early in the morning they arose and marched into the plain, and behold, a large force of infantry and horsemen was coming to meet them; and a stream lay between them.
    6: Then he and his army lined up against them. And he saw that the soldiers were afraid to cross the stream, so he crossed over first; and when his men saw him, they crossed over after him.
    7: Then he divided the army and placed the horsemen in the midst of the infantry, for the cavalry of the enemy were very numerous.
    8: And they sounded the trumpets, and Cendebeus and his army were put to flight, and many of them were wounded and fell; the rest fled into the stronghold.
    9: At that time Judas the brother of John was wounded, but John pursued them until Cendebeus reached Kedron, which he had built.
    10: They also fled into the towers that were in the fields of Azotus, and John burned it with fire, and about two thousand of them fell. And he returned to Judea safely.
    11: Now Ptolemy the son of Abubus had been appointed governor over the plain of Jericho, and he had much silver and gold,
    12: for he was son-in-law of the high priest.
    13: His heart was lifted up; he determined to get control of the country, and made treacherous plans against Simon and his sons, to do away with them.
    14: Now Simon was visiting the cities of the country and attending to their needs, and he went down to Jericho with Mattathias and Judas his sons, in the one hundred and seventy-seventh year, in the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat.
    15: The son of Abubus received them treacherously in the little stronghold called Dok, which he had built; he gave them a great banquet, and hid men there.
    16: When Simon and his sons were drunk, Ptolemy and his men rose up, took their weapons, and rushed in against Simon in the banquet hall, and they killed him and his two sons and some of his servants.
    17: So he committed an act of great treachery and returned evil for good.
    18: Then Ptolemy wrote a report about these things and sent it to the king, asking him to send troops to aid him and to turn over to him the cities and the country.
    19: He sent other men to Gazara to do away with John; he sent letters to the captains asking them to come to him so that he might give them silver and gold and gifts;
    20: and he sent other men to take possession of Jerusalem and the temple hill.
    21: But some one ran ahead and reported to John at Gazara that his father and brothers had perished, and that "he has sent men to kill you also."
    22: When he heard this, he was greatly shocked; and he seized the men who came to destroy him and killed them, for he had found out that they were seeking to destroy him.
    23: The rest of the acts of John and his wars and the brave deeds which he did, and the building of the walls which he built, and his achievements,
    24: behold, they are written in the chronicles of his high priesthood, from the time that he became high priest after his father.

End of day 128.