Day 279:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to Zechari'ah the son of Berechi'ah, son of Iddo, the prophet, saying,
    2: "The LORD was very angry with your fathers.
    3: Therefore say to them, Thus says the LORD of hosts: Return to me, says the LORD of hosts, and I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts.
    4: Be not like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, `Thus says the LORD of hosts, Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.' But they did not hear or heed me, says the LORD.
    5: Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live for ever?
    6: But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they repented and said, As the LORD of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us."
    7: On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month which is the month of Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to Zechari'ah the son of Berechi'ah, son of Iddo, the prophet; and Zechari'ah said,
    8: "I saw in the night, and behold, a man riding upon a red horse! He was standing among the myrtle trees in the glen; and behind him were red, sorrel, and white horses.
    9: Then I said, `What are these, my lord?' The angel who talked with me said to me, `I will show you what they are.'
    10: So the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, `These are they whom the LORD has sent to patrol the earth.'
    11: And they answered the angel of the LORD who was standing among the myrtle trees, `We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth remains at rest.'
    12: Then the angel of the LORD said, `O LORD of hosts, how long wilt thou have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these seventy years?'
    13: And the LORD answered gracious and comforting words to the angel who talked with me.
    14: So the angel who talked with me said to me, `Cry out, Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion.
    15: And I am very angry with the nations that are at ease; for while I was angry but a little they furthered the disaster.
    16: Therefore, thus says the LORD, I have returned to Jerusalem with compassion; my house shall be built in it, says the LORD of hosts, and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem.
    17: Cry again, Thus says the LORD of hosts: My cities shall again overflow with prosperity, and the LORD will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.'"
    18: And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four horns!
    19: And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these?" And he answered me, "These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem."
    20: Then the LORD showed me four smiths.
    21: And I said, "What are these coming to do?" He answered, "These are the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man raised his head; and these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations who lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it."

  Chapter 2.

    1: And I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand!
    2: Then I said, "Where are you going?" And he said to me, "To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its breadth and what is its length."
    3: And behold, the angel who talked with me came forward, and another angel came forward to meet him,
    4: and said to him, "Run, say to that young man, `Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls, because of the multitude of men and cattle in it.
    5: For I will be to her a wall of fire round about, says the LORD, and I will be the glory within her.'"
    6: Ho! ho! Flee from the land of the north, says the LORD; for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, says the LORD.
    7: Ho! Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
    8: For thus said the LORD of hosts, after his glory sent me to the nations who plundered you, for he who touches you touches the apple of his eye:
    9: "Behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall become plunder for those who served them. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me.
    10: Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for lo, I come and I will dwell in the midst of you, says the LORD.
    11: And many nations shall join themselves to the LORD in that day, and shall be my people; and I will dwell in the midst of you, and you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
    12: And the LORD will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem."
    13: Be silent, all flesh, before the LORD; for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the LORD, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him.
    2: And the LORD said to Satan, "The LORD rebuke you, O Satan! The LORD who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Is not this a brand plucked from the fire?"
    3: Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments.
    4: And the angel said to those who were standing before him, "Remove the filthy garments from him." And to him he said, "Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with rich apparel."
    5: And I said, "Let them put a clean turban on his head." So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments; and the angel of the LORD was standing by.
    6: And the angel of the LORD enjoined Joshua,
    7: "Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here.
    8: Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men of good omen: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch.
    9: For behold, upon the stone which I have set before Joshua, upon a single stone with seven facets, I will engrave its inscription, says the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the guilt of this land in a single day.
    10: In that day, says the LORD of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor under his vine and under his fig tree."

  Chapter 4.

    1: And the angel who talked with me came again, and waked me, like a man that is wakened out of his sleep.
    2: And he said to me, "What do you see?" I said, "I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps which are on the top of it.
    3: And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left."
    4: And I said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"
    5: Then the angel who talked with me answered me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said, "No, my lord."
    6: Then he said to me, "This is the word of the LORD to Zerub'babel: Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the LORD of hosts.
    7: What are you, O great mountain? Before Zerub'babel you shall become a plain; and he shall bring forward the top stone amid shouts of `Grace, grace to it!'"
    8: Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
    9: "The hands of Zerub'babel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also complete it. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
    10: For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of Zerub'babel. "These seven are the eyes of the LORD, which range through the whole earth."
    11: Then I said to him, "What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand?"
    12: And a second time I said to him, "What are these two branches of the olive trees, which are beside the two golden pipes from which the oil is poured out?"
    13: He said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" I said, "No, my lord."
    14: Then he said, "These are the two anointed who stand by the Lord of the whole earth."

End of day 279.