Day 22:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: The LORD said to Moses, "Depart, go up hence, you and the people whom you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, `To your descendants I will give it.'
    2: And I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites.
    3: Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey; but I will not go up among you, lest I consume you in the way, for you are a stiff-necked people."
    4: When the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned; and no man put on his ornaments.
    5: For the LORD had said to Moses, "Say to the people of Israel, `You are a stiff-necked people; if for a single moment I should go up among you, I would consume you. So now put off your ornaments from you, that I may know what to do with you.'"
    6: Therefore the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments, from Mount Horeb onward.
    7: Now Moses used to take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp; and he called it the tent of meeting. And every one who sought the LORD would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp.
    8: Whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people rose up, and every man stood at his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he had gone into the tent.
    9: When Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the door of the tent, and the LORD would speak with Moses.
    10: And when all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the door of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship, every man at his tent door.
    11: Thus the LORD used to speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. When Moses turned again into the camp, his servant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the tent.
    12: Moses said to the LORD, "See, thou sayest to me, `Bring up this people'; but thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, `I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.'
    13: Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thy sight, show me now thy ways, that I may know thee and find favor in thy sight. Consider too that this nation is thy people."
    14: And he said, "My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest."
    15: And he said to him, "If thy presence will not go with me, do not carry us up from here.
    16: For how shall it be known that I have found favor in thy sight, I and thy people? Is it not in thy going with us, so that we are distinct, I and thy people, from all other people that are upon the face of the earth?"
    17: And the LORD said to Moses, "This very thing that you have spoken I will do; for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name."
    18: Moses said, "I pray thee, show me thy glory."
    19: And he said, "I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name `The LORD'; and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.
    20: But," he said, "you cannot see my face; for man shall not see me and live."
    21: And the LORD said, "Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand upon the rock;
    22: and while my glory passes by I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by;
    23: then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back; but my face shall not be seen."

  Chapter 34.

    1: The LORD said to Moses, "Cut two tables of stone like the first; and I will write upon the tables the words that were on the first tables, which you broke.
    2: Be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
    3: No man shall come up with you, and let no man be seen throughout all the mountain; let no flocks or herds feed before that mountain."
    4: So Moses cut two tables of stone like the first; and he rose early in the morning and went up on Mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand two tables of stone.
    5: And the LORD descended in the cloud and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
    6: The LORD passed before him, and proclaimed, "The LORD, the LORD, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness,
    7: keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth generation."
    8: And Moses made haste to bow his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
    9: And he said, "If now I have found favor in thy sight, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray thee, go in the midst of us, although it is a stiff-necked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thy inheritance."
    10: And he said, "Behold, I make a covenant. Before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been wrought in all the earth or in any nation; and all the people among whom you are shall see the work of the LORD; for it is a terrible thing that I will do with you.
    11: "Observe what I command you this day. Behold, I will drive out before you the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites.
    12: Take heed to yourself, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither you go, lest it become a snare in the midst of you.
    13: You shall tear down their altars, and break their pillars, and cut down their Ashe'rim
    14: (for you shall worship no other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God),
    15: lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and when they play the harlot after their gods and sacrifice to their gods and one invites you, you eat of his sacrifice,
    16: and you take of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters play the harlot after their gods and make your sons play the harlot after their gods.
    17: "You shall make for yourself no molten gods.
    18: "The feast of unleavened bread you shall keep. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.
    19: All that opens the womb is mine, all your male cattle, the firstlings of cow and sheep.
    20: The firstling of an ass you shall redeem with a lamb, or if you will not redeem it you shall break its neck. All the first-born of your sons you shall redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
    21: "Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
    22: And you shall observe the feast of weeks, the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.
    23: Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel.
    24: For I will cast out nations before you, and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land, when you go up to appear before the LORD your God three times in the year.
    25: "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left until the morning.
    26: The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk."
    27: And the LORD said to Moses, "Write these words; in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel."
    28: And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
    29: When Moses came down from Mount Sinai, with the two tables of the testimony in his hand as he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God.
    30: And when Aaron and all the people of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him.
    31: But Moses called to them; and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them.
    32: And afterward all the people of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in Mount Sinai.
    33: And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face;
    34: but whenever Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and when he came out, and told the people of Israel what he was commanded,
    35: the people of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone; and Moses would put the veil upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him.

  Chapter 35.

    1: Moses assembled all the congregation of the people of Israel, and said to them, "These are the things which the LORD has commanded you to do.
    2: Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a holy sabbath of solemn rest to the LORD; whoever does any work on it shall be put to death;
    3: you shall kindle no fire in all your habitations on the sabbath day."
    4: Moses said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, "This is the thing which the LORD has commanded.
    5: Take from among you an offering to the LORD; whoever is of a generous heart, let him bring the LORD's offering: gold, silver, and bronze;
    6: blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen; goats' hair,
    7: tanned rams' skins, and goatskins; acacia wood,
    8: oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
    9: and onyx stones and stones for setting, for the ephod and for the breastpiece.
    10: "And let every able man among you come and make all that the LORD has commanded: the tabernacle,
    11: its tent and its covering, its hooks and its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;
    12: the ark with its poles, the mercy seat, and the veil of the screen;
    13: the table with its poles and all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
    14: the lampstand also for the light, with its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light;
    15: and the altar of incense, with its poles, and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the door, at the door of the tabernacle;
    16: the altar of burnt offering, with its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils, the laver and its base;
    17: the hangings of the court, its pillars and its bases, and the screen for the gate of the court;
    18: the pegs of the tabernacle and the pegs of the court, and their cords;
    19: the finely wrought garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, for their service as priests."
    20: Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
    21: And they came, every one whose heart stirred him, and every one whose spirit moved him, and brought the LORD's offering to be used for the tent of meeting, and for all its service, and for the holy garments.
    22: So they came, both men and women; all who were of a willing heart brought brooches and earrings and signet rings and armlets, all sorts of gold objects, every man dedicating an offering of gold to the LORD.
    23: And every man with whom was found blue or purple or scarlet stuff or fine linen or goats' hair or tanned rams' skins or goatskins, brought them.
    24: Every one who could make an offering of silver or bronze brought it as the LORD's offering; and every man with whom was found acacia wood of any use in the work, brought it.
    25: And all women who had ability spun with their hands, and brought what they had spun in blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen;
    26: all the women whose hearts were moved with ability spun the goats' hair.
    27: And the leaders brought onyx stones and stones to be set, for the ephod and for the breastpiece,
    28: and spices and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.
    29: All the men and women, the people of Israel, whose heart moved them to bring anything for the work which the LORD had commanded by Moses to be done, brought it as their freewill offering to the LORD.
    30: And Moses said to the people of Israel, "See, the LORD has called by name Bez'alel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
    31: and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with ability, with intelligence, with knowledge, and with all craftsmanship,
    32: to devise artistic designs, to work in gold and silver and bronze,
    33: in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, for work in every skilled craft.
    34: And he has inspired him to teach, both him and Oho'liab the son of Ahis'amach of the tribe of Dan.
    35: He has filled them with ability to do every sort of work done by a craftsman or by a designer or by an embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen, or by a weaver -- by any sort of workman or skilled designer.

  Chapter 36.

    1: Bez'alel and Oho'liab and every able man in whom the LORD has put ability and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary shall work in accordance with all that the LORD has commanded."
    2: And Moses called Bez'alel and Oho'liab and every able man in whose mind the LORD had put ability, every one whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work;
    3: and they received from Moses all the freewill offering which the people of Israel had brought for doing the work on the sanctuary. They still kept bringing him freewill offerings every morning,
    4: so that all the able men who were doing every sort of task on the sanctuary came, each from the task that he was doing,
    5: and said to Moses, "The people bring much more than enough for doing the work which the LORD has commanded us to do."
    6: So Moses gave command, and word was proclaimed throughout the camp, "Let neither man nor woman do anything more for the offering for the sanctuary." So the people were restrained from bringing;
    7: for the stuff they had was sufficient to do all the work, and more.
    8: And all the able men among the workmen made the tabernacle with ten curtains; they were made of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet stuff, with cherubim skilfully worked.
    9: The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains had the same measure.
    10: And he coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled to one another.
    11: And he made loops of blue on the edge of the outmost curtain of the first set; likewise he made them on the edge of the outmost curtain of the second set;
    12: he made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite one another.
    13: And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to the other with clasps; so the tabernacle was one whole.
    14: He also made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains.
    15: The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits; the eleven curtains had the same measure.
    16: He coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
    17: And he made fifty loops on the edge of the outmost curtain of the one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the other connecting curtain.
    18: And he made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together that it might be one whole.
    19: And he made for the tent a covering of tanned rams' skins and goatskins.
    20: Then he made the upright frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood.
    21: Ten cubits was the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each frame.
    22: Each frame had two tenons, for fitting together; he did this for all the frames of the tabernacle.
    23: The frames for the tabernacle he made thus: twenty frames for the south side;
    24: and he made forty bases of silver under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under another frame for its two tenons.
    25: And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty frames
    26: and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame and two bases under another frame.
    27: And for the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six frames.
    28: And he made two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
    29: And they were separate beneath, but joined at the top, at the first ring; he made two of them thus, for the two corners.
    30: There were eight frames with their bases of silver: sixteen bases, under every frame two bases.
    31: And he made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames of the one side of the tabernacle,
    32: and five bars for the frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
    33: And he made the middle bar to pass through from end to end halfway up the frames.
    34: And he overlaid the frames with gold, and made their rings of gold for holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
    35: And he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen; with cherubim skilfully worked he made it.
    36: And for it he made four pillars of acacia, and overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four bases of silver.
    37: He also made a screen for the door of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework;
    38: and its five pillars with their hooks. He overlaid their capitals, and their fillets were of gold, but their five bases were of bronze.

End of day 22.