Day 356:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key of the shaft of the bottomless pit;
    2: he opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft.
    3: Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth;
    4: they were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green growth or any tree, but only those of mankind who have not the seal of God upon their foreheads;
    5: they were allowed to torture them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torture was like the torture of a scorpion, when it stings a man.
    6: And in those days men will seek death and will not find it; they will long to die, and death will fly from them.
    7: In appearance the locusts were like horses arrayed for battle; on their heads were what looked like crowns of gold; their faces were like human faces,
    8: their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth;
    9: they had scales like iron breastplates, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle.
    10: They have tails like scorpions, and stings, and their power of hurting men for five months lies in their tails.
    11: They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit; his name in Hebrew is Abad'don, and in Greek he is called Apol'lyon.
    12: The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come.
    13: Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
    14: saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphra'tes."
    15: So the four angels were released, who had been held ready for the hour, the day, the month, and the year, to kill a third of mankind.
    16: The number of the troops of cavalry was twice ten thousand times ten thousand; I heard their number.
    17: And this was how I saw the horses in my vision: the riders wore breastplates the color of fire and of sapphire and of sulphur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulphur issued from their mouths.
    18: By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulphur issuing from their mouths.
    19: For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails; their tails are like serpents, with heads, and by means of them they wound.
    20: The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot either see or hear or walk;
    21: nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their immorality or their thefts.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow over his head, and his face was like the sun, and his legs like pillars of fire.
    2: He had a little scroll open in his hand. And he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land,
    3: and called out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring; when he called out, the seven thunders sounded.
    4: And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Seal up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down."
    5: And the angel whom I saw standing on sea and land lifted up his right hand to heaven
    6: and swore by him who lives for ever and ever, who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there should be no more delay,
    7: but that in the days of the trumpet call to be sounded by the seventh angel, the mystery of God, as he announced to his servants the prophets, should be fulfilled.
    8: Then the voice which I had heard from heaven spoke to me again, saying, "Go, take the scroll which is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land."
    9: So I went to the angel and told him to give me the little scroll; and he said to me, "Take it and eat; it will be bitter to your stomach, but sweet as honey in your mouth."
    10: And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel and ate it; it was sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it my stomach was made bitter.
    11: And I was told, "You must again prophesy about many peoples and nations and tongues and kings."

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told: "Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there,
    2: but do not measure the court outside the temple; leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and they will trample over the holy city for forty-two months.
    3: And I will grant my two witnesses power to prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth."
    4: These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands which stand before the Lord of the earth.
    5: And if any one would harm them, fire pours out from their mouth and consumes their foes; if any one would harm them, thus he is doomed to be killed.
    6: They have power to shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to smite the earth with every plague, as often as they desire.
    7: And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that ascends from the bottomless pit will make war upon them and conquer them and kill them,
    8: and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city which is allegorically called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was crucified.
    9: For three days and a half men from the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb,
    10: and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth.
    11: But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.
    12: Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up hither!" And in the sight of their foes they went up to heaven in a cloud.
    13: And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell; seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
    14: The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is soon to come.
    15: Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, "The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign for ever and ever."
    16: And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God,
    17: saying, "We give thanks to thee, Lord God Almighty, who art and who wast, that thou hast taken thy great power and begun to reign.
    18: The nations raged, but thy wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, for rewarding thy servants, the prophets and saints, and those who fear thy name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth."
    19: Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple; and there were flashes of lightning, voices, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And a great portent appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars;
    2: she was with child and she cried out in her pangs of birth, in anguish for delivery.
    3: And another portent appeared in heaven; behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns, and seven diadems upon his heads.
    4: His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to bear a child, that he might devour her child when she brought it forth;
    5: she brought forth a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne,
    6: and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which to be nourished for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.
    7: Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon; and the dragon and his angels fought,
    8: but they were defeated and there was no longer any place for them in heaven.
    9: And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the Devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world -- he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
    10: And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, "Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God.
    11: And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death.
    12: Rejoice then, O heaven and you that dwell therein! But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short!"
    13: And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had borne the male child.
    14: But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness, to the place where she is to be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time.
    15: The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away with the flood.
    16: But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river which the dragon had poured from his mouth.
    17: Then the dragon was angry with the woman, and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God and bear testimony to Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea.

End of day 356.