Day 91:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: So all Israel was enrolled by genealogies; and these are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their unfaithfulness.
    2: Now the first to dwell again in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.
    3: And some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, E'phraim, and Manas'seh dwelt in Jerusalem:
    4: Uthai the son of Ammi'hud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, from the sons of Perez the son of Judah.
    5: And of the Shi'lonites: Asai'ah the first-born, and his sons.
    6: Of the sons of Zerah: Jeu'el and their kinsmen, six hundred and ninety.
    7: Of the Benjaminites: Sallu the son of Meshul'lam, son of Hodavi'ah, son of Hassenu'ah,
    8: Ibne'iah the son of Jero'ham, Elah the son of Uzzi, son of Michri, and Meshul'lam the son of Shephati'ah, son of Reu'el, son of Ibni'jah;
    9: and their kinsmen according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these were heads of fathers' houses according to their fathers' houses.
    10: Of the priests: Jedai'ah, Jehoi'arib, Jachin,
    11: and Azari'ah the son of Hilki'ah, son of Meshul'lam, son of Zadok, son of Merai'oth, son of Ahi'tub, the chief officer of the house of God;
    12: and Adai'ah the son of Jero'ham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchi'jah, and Ma'asai the son of Ad'i-el, son of Jah'zerah, son of Meshul'lam, son of Meshil'lemith, son of Immer;
    13: besides their kinsmen, heads of their fathers' houses, one thousand seven hundred and sixty, very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
    14: Of the Levites: Shemai'ah the son of Hasshub, son of Azri'kam, son of Hashabi'ah, of the sons of Merar'i;
    15: and Bakbak'kar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattani'ah the son of Mica, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;
    16: and Obadi'ah the son of Shemai'ah, son of Galal, son of Jedu'thun, and Berechi'ah the son of Asa, son of Elka'nah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netoph'athites.
    17: The gatekeepers were: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahi'man, and their kinsmen (Shallum being the chief),
    18: stationed hitherto in the king's gate on the east side. These were the gatekeepers of the camp of the Levites.
    19: Shallum the son of Ko're, son of Ebi'asaph, son of Korah, and his kinsmen of his fathers' house, the Ko'rahites, were in charge of the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent, as their fathers had been in charge of the camp of the LORD, keepers of the entrance.
    20: And Phin'ehas the son of Elea'zar was the ruler over them in time past; the LORD was with him.
    21: Zechari'ah the son of Meshelemi'ah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
    22: All these, who were chosen as gatekeepers at the thresholds, were two hundred and twelve. They were enrolled by genealogies in their villages. David and Samuel the seer established them in their office of trust.
    23: So they and their sons were in charge of the gates of the house of the LORD, that is, the house of the tent, as guards.
    24: The gatekeepers were on the four sides, east, west, north, and south;
    25: and their kinsmen who were in their villages were obliged to come in every seven days, from time to time, to be with these;
    26: for the four chief gatekeepers, who were Levites, were in charge of the chambers and the treasures of the house of God.
    27: And they lodged round about the house of God; for upon them lay the duty of watching, and they had charge of opening it every morning.
    28: Some of them had charge of the utensils of service, for they were required to count them when they were brought in and taken out.
    29: Others of them were appointed over the furniture, and over all the holy utensils, also over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the incense, and the spices.
    30: Others, of the sons of the priests, prepared the mixing of the spices,
    31: and Mattithi'ah, one of the Levites, the first-born of Shallum the Ko'rahite, was in charge of making the flat cakes.
    32: Also some of their kinsmen of the Ko'hathites had charge of the showbread, to prepare it every sabbath.
    33: Now these are the singers, the heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, dwelling in the chambers of the temple free from other service, for they were on duty day and night.
    34: These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, according to their generations, leaders, who lived in Jerusalem.
    35: In Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Je-i'el, and the name of his wife was Ma'acah,
    36: and his first-born son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Ba'al, Ner, Nadab,
    37: Gedor, Ahi'o, Zech-ari'ah and Mikloth;
    38: and Mikloth was the father of Shim'e-am; and these also dwelt opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
    39: Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Mal'chishu'a, Abin'adab, and Eshba'al;
    40: and the son of Jonathan was Mer'ib-ba'al; and Mer'ib-ba'al was the father of Micah.
    41: The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahr'e-a, and Ahaz;
    42: and Ahaz was the father of Jarah, and Jarah of Al'emeth, Az'maveth, and Zimri; and Zimri was the father of Moza.
    43: Moza was the father of Bin'e-a; and Rephai'ah was his son, Ele-a'sah his son, Azel his son.
    44: Azel had six sons and these are their names: Azri'kam, Bo'cheru, Ish'mael, She-ari'ah, Obadi'ah, and Hanan; these were the sons of Azel.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell slain on Mount Gilbo'a.
    2: And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan and Abin'adab and Mal'chishu'a, the sons of Saul.
    3: The battle pressed hard upon Saul, and the archers found him; and he was wounded by the archers.
    4: Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and make sport of me." But his armor-bearer would not; for he feared greatly. Therefore Saul took his own sword, and fell upon it.
    5: And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword, and died.
    6: Thus Saul died; he and his three sons and all his house died together.
    7: And when all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that the army had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
    8: On the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilbo'a.
    9: And they stripped him and took his head and his armor, and sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines, to carry the good news to their idols and to the people.
    10: And they put his armor in the temple of their gods, and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.
    11: But when all Ja'besh-gil'ead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
    12: all the valiant men arose, and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh. And they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
    13: So Saul died for his unfaithfulness; he was unfaithful to the LORD in that he did not keep the command of the LORD, and also consulted a medium, seeking guidance,
    14: and did not seek guidance from the LORD. Therefore the LORD slew him, and turned the kingdom over to David the son of Jesse.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then all Israel gathered together to David at Hebron, and said, "Behold, we are your bone and flesh.
    2: In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you that led out and brought in Israel; and the LORD your God said to you, `You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel.'"
    3: So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron; and David made a covenant with them at Hebron before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD by Samuel.
    4: And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, that is Jebus, where the Jeb'usites were, the inhabitants of the land.
    5: The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You will not come in here." Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
    6: David said, "Whoever shall smite the Jeb'usites first shall be chief and commander." And Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah went up first, so he became chief.
    7: And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David.
    8: And he built the city round about from the Millo in complete circuit; and Jo'ab repaired the rest of the city.
    9: And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him.
    10: Now these are the chiefs of David's mighty men, who gave him strong support in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
    11: This is an account of David's mighty men: Jasho'be-am, a Hach'monite, was chief of the three; he wielded his spear against three hundred whom he slew at one time.
    12: And next to him among the three mighty men was Elea'zar the son of Dodo, the Aho'hite.
    13: He was with David at Pas-dam'mim when the Philistines were gathered there for battle. There was a plot of ground full of barley, and the men fled from the Philistines.
    14: But he took his stand in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a great victory.
    15: Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David at the cave of Adullam, when the army of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Reph'aim.
    16: David was then in the stronghold; and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem.
    17: And David said longingly, "O that some one would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem which is by the gate!"
    18: Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate, and took and brought it to David. But David would not drink of it; he poured it out to the LORD,
    19: and said, "Far be it from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the lifeblood of these men? For at the risk of their lives they brought it." Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
    20: Now Abi'shai, the brother of Jo'ab, was chief of the thirty. And he wielded his spear against three hundred men and slew them, and won a name beside the three.
    21: He was the most renowned of the thirty, and became their commander; but he did not attain to the three.
    22: And Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada was a valiant man of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds; he smote two ariels of Moab. He also went down and slew a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen.
    23: And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits tall. The Egyptian had in his hand a spear like a weaver's beam; but Benai'ah went down to him with a staff, and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.
    24: These things did Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, and won a name beside the three mighty men.
    25: He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard.
    26: The mighty men of the armies were As'ahel the brother of Jo'ab, Elha'nan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
    27: Shammoth of Harod, Helez the Pel'onite,
    28: Ira the son of Ikkesh of Teko'a, Abi-e'zer of An'athoth,
    29: Sib'becai the Hu'shathite, I'lai the Aho'hite,
    30: Ma'harai of Netoph'ah, Heled the son of Ba'anah of Netoph'ah,
    31: Ithai the son of Ribai of Gib'e-ah of the Benjaminites, Benai'ah of Pira'thon,
    32: Hurai of the brooks of Ga'ash, Abi'el the Ar'bathite,
    33: Az'maveth of Baha'rum, Eli'ahba of Sha-al'bon,
    34: Hashem the Gi'zonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Har'arite,
    35: Ahi'am the son of Sachar the Har'arite, Eli'phal the son of Ur,
    36: Hepher the Meche'rathite, Ahi'jah the Pel'onite,
    37: Hezro of Carmel, Na'arai the son of Ezbai,
    38: Jo'el the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,
    39: Zelek the Ammonite, Na'harai of Be-er'oth, the armor-bearer of Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah,
    40: Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
    41: Uri'ah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
    42: Ad'ina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,
    43: Hanan the son of Ma'acah, and Josh'aphat the Mithnite,
    44: Uzzi'a the Ash'terathite, Shama and Je-i'el the sons of Hotham the Aro'erite,
    45: Jedi'a-el the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
    46: Eli'el the Ma'havite, and Jer'ibai, and Joshavi'ah, the sons of El'na-am, and Ithmah the Mo'abite,
    47: Eli'el, and Obed, and Ja-asi'el the Mezo'ba-ite.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now these are the men who came to David at Ziklag, while he could not move about freely because of Saul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men who helped him in war.
    2: They were bowmen, and could shoot arrows and sling stones with either the right or the left hand; they were Benjaminites, Saul's kinsmen.
    3: The chief was Ahi-e'zer, then Jo'ash, both sons of Shema'ah of Gib'e-ah; also Je'zi-el and Pelet the sons of Az'maveth; Ber'acah, Jehu of An'athoth,
    4: Ishma'iah of Gibeon, a mighty man among the thirty and a leader over the thirty; Jeremiah, Jaha'ziel, Joha'nan, Joz'abad of Gede'rah,
    5: Elu'zai, Jer'imoth, Beali'ah, Shemari'ah, Shephati'ah the Har'uphite;
    6: Elka'nah, Isshi'ah, Az'arel, Jo-e'zer, and Jasho'be-am, the Ko'rahites;
    7: and Joe'lah and Zebadi'ah, the sons of Jero'ham of Gedor.
    8: From the Gadites there went over to David at the stronghold in the wilderness mighty and experienced warriors, expert with shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions, and who were swift as gazelles upon the mountains:
    9: Ezer the chief, Obadi'ah second, Eli'ab third,
    10: Mishman'nah fourth, Jeremiah fifth,
    11: Attai sixth, Eli'el seventh,
    12: Joha'nan eighth, Elza'bad ninth,
    13: Jeremiah tenth, Mach'bannai eleventh.
    14: These Gadites were officers of the army, the lesser over a hundred and the greater over a thousand.
    15: These are the men who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it was overflowing all its banks, and put to flight all those in the valleys, to the east and to the west.
    16: And some of the men of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David.
    17: David went out to meet them and said to them, "If you have come to me in friendship to help me, my heart will be knit to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, although there is no wrong in my hands, then may the God of our fathers see and rebuke you."
    18: Then the Spirit came upon Ama'sai, chief of the thirty, and he said, "We are yours, O David; and with you, O son of Jesse! Peace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers! For your God helps you." Then David received them, and made them officers of his troops.
    19: Some of the men of Manas'seh deserted to David when he came with the Philistines for the battle against Saul. (Yet he did not help them, for the rulers of the Philistines took counsel and sent him away, saying, "At peril to our heads he will desert to his master Saul.")
    20: As he went to Ziklag these men of Manas'seh deserted to him: Adnah, Joz'abad, Jedi'a-el, Michael, Joz'abad, Eli'hu, and Zil'lethai, chiefs of thousands in Manas'seh.
    21: They helped David against the band of raiders; for they were all mighty men of valor, and were commanders in the army.
    22: For from day to day men kept coming to David to help him, until there was a great army, like an army of God.
    23: These are the numbers of the divisions of the armed troops, who came to David in Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul over to him, according to the word of the LORD.
    24: The men of Judah bearing shield and spear were six thousand eight hundred armed troops.
    25: Of the Simeonites, mighty men of valor for war, seven thousand one hundred.
    26: Of the Levites four thousand six hundred.
    27: The prince Jehoi'ada, of the house of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred.
    28: Zadok, a young man mighty in valor, and twenty-two commanders from his own father's house.
    29: Of the Benjaminites, the kinsmen of Saul, three thousand, of whom the majority had hitherto kept their allegiance to the house of Saul.
    30: Of the E'phraimites twenty thousand eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers' houses.
    31: Of the half-tribe of Manas'seh eighteen thousand, who were expressly named to come and make David king.
    32: Of Is'sachar men who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, two hundred chiefs, and all their kinsmen under their command.
    33: Of Zeb'ulun fifty thousand seasoned troops, equipped for battle with all the weapons of war, to help David with singleness of purpose.
    34: Of Naph'tali a thousand commanders with whom were thirty-seven thousand men armed with shield and spear.
    35: Of the Danites twenty-eight thousand six hundred men equipped for battle.
    36: Of Asher forty thousand seasoned troops ready for battle.
    37: Of the Reubenites and Gadites and the half-tribe of Manas'seh from beyond the Jordan, one hundred and twenty thousand men armed with all the weapons of war.
    38: All these, men of war, arrayed in battle order, came to Hebron with full intent to make David king over all Israel; likewise all the rest of Israel were of a single mind to make David king.
    39: And they were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brethren had made preparation for them.
    40: And also their neighbors, from as far as Is'sachar and Zeb'ulun and Naph'tali, came bringing food on asses and on camels and on mules and on oxen, abundant provisions of meal, cakes of figs, clusters of raisins, and wine and oil, oxen and sheep, for there was joy in Israel.

End of day 91.