Day 282:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['13', '14']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: "On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness.
    2: "And on that day, says the LORD of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, so that they shall be remembered no more; and also I will remove from the land the prophets and the unclean spirit.
    3: And if any one again appears as a prophet, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, `You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of the LORD'; and his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through when he prophesies.
    4: On that day every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies; he will not put on a hairy mantle in order to deceive,
    5: but he will say, `I am no prophet, I am a tiller of the soil; for the land has been my possession since my youth.'
    6: And if one asks him, `What are these wounds on your back?' he will say, `The wounds I received in the house of my friends.'"
    7: "Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me," says the LORD of hosts. "Strike the shepherd, that the sheep may be scattered; I will turn my hand against the little ones.
    8: In the whole land, says the LORD, two thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left alive.
    9: And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will answer them. I will say, `They are my people'; and they will say, `The LORD is my God.'"

  Chapter 14.

    1: Behold, a day of the LORD is coming, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in the midst of you.
    2: For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken and the houses plundered and the women ravished; half of the city shall go into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
    3: Then the LORD will go forth and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle.
    4: On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives which lies before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley; so that one half of the Mount shall withdraw northward, and the other half southward.
    5: And the valley of my mountains shall be stopped up, for the valley of the mountains shall touch the side of it; and you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzzi'ah king of Judah. Then the LORD your God will come, and all the holy ones with him.
    6: On that day there shall be neither cold nor frost.
    7: And there shall be continuous day (it is known to the LORD), not day and not night, for at evening time there shall be light.
    8: On that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea; it shall continue in summer as in winter.
    9: And the LORD will become king over all the earth; on that day the LORD will be one and his name one.
    10: The whole land shall be turned into a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem shall remain aloft upon its site from the Gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Han'anel to the king's wine presses.
    11: And it shall be inhabited, for there shall be no more curse; Jerusalem shall dwell in security.
    12: And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will smite all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem: their flesh shall rot while they are still on their feet, their eyes shall rot in their sockets, and their tongues shall rot in their mouths.
    13: And on that day a great panic from the LORD shall fall on them, so that each will lay hold on the hand of his fellow, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other;
    14: even Judah will fight against Jerusalem. And the wealth of all the nations round about shall be collected, gold, silver, and garments in great abundance.
    15: And a plague like this plague shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the asses, and whatever beasts may be in those camps.
    16: Then every one that survives of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the feast of booths.
    17: And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, there will be no rain upon them.
    18: And if the family of Egypt do not go up and present themselves, then upon them shall come the plague with which the LORD afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of booths.
    19: This shall be the punishment to Egypt and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of booths.
    20: And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, "Holy to the LORD." And the pots in the house of the LORD shall be as the bowls before the altar;
    21: and every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be sacred to the LORD of hosts, so that all who sacrifice may come and take of them and boil the flesh of the sacrifice in them. And there shall no longer be a trader in the house of the LORD of hosts on that day.

End of day 282.