Day 179:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['141', '142', '143', '144']:

  Chapter 141.

    1: I call upon thee, O LORD; make haste to me! Give ear to my voice, when I call to thee!
    2: Let my prayer be counted as incense before thee, and the lifting up of my hands as an evening sacrifice!
    3: Set a guard over my mouth, O LORD, keep watch over the door of my lips!
    4: Incline not my heart to any evil, to busy myself with wicked deeds in company with men who work iniquity; and let me not eat of their dainties!
    5: Let a good man strike or rebuke me in kindness, but let the oil of the wicked never anoint my head; for my prayer is continually against their wicked deeds.
    6: When they are given over to those who shall condemn them, then they shall learn that the word of the LORD is true.
    7: As a rock which one cleaves and shatters on the land, so shall their bones be strewn at the mouth of Sheol.
    8: But my eyes are toward thee, O LORD God; in thee I seek refuge; leave me not defenseless!
    9: Keep me from the trap which they have laid for me, and from the snares of evildoers!
    10: Let the wicked together fall into their own nets, while I escape.

  Chapter 142.

    1: I cry with my voice to the LORD, with my voice I make supplication to the LORD,
    2: I pour out my complaint before him, I tell my trouble before him.
    3: When my spirit is faint, thou knowest my way! In the path where I walk they have hidden a trap for me.
    4: I look to the right and watch, but there is none who takes notice of me; no refuge remains to me, no man cares for me.
    5: I cry to thee, O LORD; I say, Thou art my refuge, my portion in the land of the living.
    6: Give heed to my cry; for I am brought very low! Deliver me from my persecutors; for they are too strong for me!
    7: Bring me out of prison, that I may give thanks to thy name! The righteous will surround me; for thou wilt deal bountifully with me.

  Chapter 143.

    1: Hear my prayer, O LORD; give ear to my supplications! In thy faithfulness answer me, in thy righteousness!
    2: Enter not into judgment with thy servant; for no man living is righteous before thee.
    3: For the enemy has pursued me; he has crushed my life to the ground; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead.
    4: Therefore my spirit faints within me; my heart within me is appalled.
    5: I remember the days of old, I meditate on all that thou hast done; I muse on what thy hands have wrought.
    6: I stretch out my hands to thee; my soul thirsts for thee like a parched land. [Selah]
    7: Make haste to answer me, O LORD! My spirit fails! Hide not thy face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the Pit.
    8: Let me hear in the morning of thy steadfast love, for in thee I put my trust. Teach me the way I should go, for to thee I lift up my soul.
    9: Deliver me, O LORD, from my enemies! I have fled to thee for refuge!
    10: Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God! Let thy good spirit lead me on a level path!
    11: For thy name's sake, O LORD, preserve my life! In thy righteousness bring me out of trouble!
    12: And in thy steadfast love cut off my enemies, and destroy all my adversaries, for I am thy servant.

  Chapter 144.

    1: Blessed be the LORD, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle;
    2: my rock and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues the peoples under him.
    3: O LORD, what is man that thou dost regard him, or the son of man that thou dost think of him?
    4: Man is like a breath, his days are like a passing shadow.
    5: Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down! Touch the mountains that they smoke!
    6: Flash forth the lightning and scatter them, send out thy arrows and rout them!
    7: Stretch forth thy hand from on high, rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand of aliens,
    8: whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
    9: I will sing a new song to thee, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to thee,
    10: who givest victory to kings, who rescuest David thy servant.
    11: Rescue me from the cruel sword, and deliver me from the hand of aliens, whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
    12: May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace;
    13: may our garners be full, providing all manner of store; may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields;
    14: may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mischance or failure in bearing; may there be no cry of distress in our streets!
    15: Happy the people to whom such blessings fall! Happy the people whose God is the LORD!

End of day 179.