Day 49:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: After the death of Moses the servant of the LORD, the LORD said to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister,
    2: "Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land which I am giving to them, to the people of Israel.
    3: Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, as I promised to Moses.
    4: From the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphra'tes, all the land of the Hittites to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory.
    5: No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life; as I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will not fail you or forsake you.
    6: Be strong and of good courage; for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to give them.
    7: Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you; turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go.
    8: This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it; for then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have good success.
    9: Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of good courage; be not frightened, neither be dismayed; for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go."
    10: Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people,
    11: "Pass through the camp, and command the people, `Prepare your provisions; for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan, to go in to take possession of the land which the LORD your God gives you to possess.'"
    12: And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manas'seh Joshua said,
    13: "Remember the word which Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, `The LORD your God is providing you a place of rest, and will give you this land.'
    14: Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan; but all the men of valor among you shall pass over armed before your brethren and shall help them,
    15: until the LORD gives rest to your brethren as well as to you, and they also take possession of the land which the LORD your God is giving them; then you shall return to the land of your possession, and shall possess it, the land which Moses the servant of the LORD gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise."
    16: And they answered Joshua, "All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go.
    17: Just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you; only may the LORD your God be with you, as he was with Moses!
    18: Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your words, whatever you command him, shall be put to death. Only be strong and of good courage."

  Chapter 2.

    1: And Joshua the son of Nun sent two men secretly from Shittim as spies, saying, "Go, view the land, especially Jericho." And they went, and came into the house of a harlot whose name was Rahab, and lodged there.
    2: And it was told the king of Jericho, "Behold, certain men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land."
    3: Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, "Bring forth the men that have come to you, who entered your house; for they have come to search out all the land."
    4: But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them; and she said, "True, men came to me, but I did not know where they came from;
    5: and when the gate was to be closed, at dark, the men went out; where the men went I do not know; pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them."
    6: But she had brought them up to the roof, and hid them with the stalks of flax which she had laid in order on the roof.
    7: So the men pursued after them on the way to the Jordan as far as the fords; and as soon as the pursuers had gone out, the gate was shut.
    8: Before they lay down, she came up to them on the roof,
    9: and said to the men, "I know that the LORD has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.
    10: For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites that were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and Og, whom you utterly destroyed.
    11: And as soon as we heard it, our hearts melted, and there was no courage left in any man, because of you; for the LORD your God is he who is God in heaven above and on earth beneath.
    12: Now then, swear to me by the LORD that as I have dealt kindly with you, you also will deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a sure sign,
    13: and save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them, and deliver our lives from death."
    14: And the men said to her, "Our life for yours! If you do not tell this business of ours, then we will deal kindly and faithfully with you when the LORD gives us the land."
    15: Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was built into the city wall, so that she dwelt in the wall.
    16: And she said to them, "Go into the hills, lest the pursuers meet you; and hide yourselves there three days, until the pursuers have returned; then afterward you may go your way."
    17: The men said to her, "We will be guiltless with respect to this oath of yours which you have made us swear.
    18: Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this scarlet cord in the window through which you let us down; and you shall gather into your house your father and mother, your brothers, and all your father's household.
    19: If any one goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we shall be guiltless; but if a hand is laid upon any one who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head.
    20: But if you tell this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless with respect to your oath which you have made us swear."
    21: And she said, "According to your words, so be it." Then she sent them away, and they departed; and she bound the scarlet cord in the window.
    22: They departed, and went into the hills, and remained there three days, until the pursuers returned; for the pursuers had made search all along the way and found nothing.
    23: Then the two men came down again from the hills, and passed over and came to Joshua the son of Nun; and they told him all that had befallen them.
    24: And they said to Joshua, "Truly the LORD has given all the land into our hands; and moreover all the inhabitants of the land are fainthearted because of us."

  Chapter 3.

    1: Early in the morning Joshua rose and set out from Shittim, with all the people of Israel; and they came to the Jordan, and lodged there before they passed over.
    2: At the end of three days the officers went through the camp
    3: and commanded the people, "When you see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God being carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it,
    4: that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, a distance of about two thousand cubits; do not come near it."
    5: And Joshua said to the people, "Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders among you."
    6: And Joshua said to the priests, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and pass on before the people." And they took up the ark of the covenant, and went before the people.
    7: And the LORD said to Joshua, "This day I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that, as I was with Moses, so I will be with you.
    8: And you shall command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, `When you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.'"
    9: And Joshua said to the people of Israel, "Come hither, and hear the words of the LORD your God."
    10: And Joshua said, "Hereby you shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Per'izzites, the Gir'gashites, the Amorites, and the Jeb'usites.
    11: Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is to pass over before you into the Jordan.
    12: Now therefore take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, from each tribe a man.
    13: And when the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of the LORD, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be stopped from flowing, and the waters coming down from above shall stand in one heap."
    14: So, when the people set out from their tents, to pass over the Jordan with the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people,
    15: and when those who bore the ark had come to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water (the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest),
    16: the waters coming down from above stood and rose up in a heap far off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zar'ethan, and those flowing down toward the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off; and the people passed over opposite Jericho.
    17: And while all Israel were passing over on dry ground, the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan.

  Chapter 4.

    1: When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the LORD said to Joshua,
    2: "Take twelve men from the people, from each tribe a man,
    3: and command them, `Take twelve stones from here out of the midst of the Jordan, from the very place where the priests' feet stood, and carry them over with you, and lay them down in the place where you lodge tonight.'"
    4: Then Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe;
    5: and Joshua said to them, "Pass on before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of the Jordan, and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel,
    6: that this may be a sign among you, when your children ask in time to come, `What do those stones mean to you?'
    7: Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the LORD; when it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial for ever."
    8: And the men of Israel did as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, as the LORD told Joshua; and they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged, and laid them down there.
    9: And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the covenant had stood; and they are there to this day.
    10: For the priests who bore the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan, until everything was finished that the LORD commanded Joshua to tell the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste;
    11: and when all the people had finished passing over, the ark of the LORD and the priests passed over before the people.
    12: The sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manas'seh passed over armed before the people of Israel, as Moses had bidden them;
    13: about forty thousand ready armed for war passed over before the LORD for battle, to the plains of Jericho.
    14: On that day the LORD exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they stood in awe of him, as they had stood in awe of Moses, all the days of his life.
    15: And the LORD said to Joshua,
    16: "Command the priests who bear the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan."
    17: Joshua therefore commanded the priests, "Come up out of the Jordan."
    18: And when the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the LORD came up from the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overflowed all its banks, as before.
    19: The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and they encamped in Gilgal on the east border of Jericho.
    20: And those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up in Gilgal.
    21: And he said to the people of Israel, "When your children ask their fathers in time to come, `What do these stones mean?'
    22: then you shall let your children know, `Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground.'
    23: For the LORD your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over,
    24: so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the LORD is mighty; that you may fear the LORD your God for ever."

End of day 49.