Day 186:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Better is a dry morsel with quiet than a house full of feasting with strife.
    2: A slave who deals wisely will rule over a son who acts shamefully, and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers.
    3: The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and the LORD tries hearts.
    4: An evildoer listens to wicked lips; and a liar gives heed to a mischievous tongue.
    5: He who mocks the poor insults his Maker; he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished.
    6: Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of sons is their fathers.
    7: Fine speech is not becoming to a fool; still less is false speech to a prince.
    8: A bribe is like a magic stone in the eyes of him who gives it; wherever he turns he prospers.
    9: He who forgives an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter alienates a friend.
    10: A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool.
    11: An evil man seeks only rebellion, and a cruel messenger will be sent against him.
    12: Let a man meet a she-bear robbed of her cubs, rather than a fool in his folly.
    13: If a man returns evil for good, evil will not depart from his house.
    14: The beginning of strife is like letting out water; so quit before the quarrel breaks out.
    15: He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous are both alike an abomination to the LORD.
    16: Why should a fool have a price in his hand to buy wisdom, when he has no mind?
    17: A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
    18: A man without sense gives a pledge, and becomes surety in the presence of his neighbor.
    19: He who loves transgression loves strife; he who makes his door high seeks destruction.
    20: A man of crooked mind does not prosper, and one with a perverse tongue falls into calamity.
    21: A stupid son is a grief to a father; and the father of a fool has no joy.
    22: A cheerful heart is a good medicine, but a downcast spirit dries up the bones.
    23: A wicked man accepts a bribe from the bosom to pervert the ways of justice.
    24: A man of understanding sets his face toward wisdom, but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth.
    25: A foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her who bore him.
    26: To impose a fine on a righteous man is not good; to flog noble men is wrong.
    27: He who restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding.
    28: Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; when he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent.

  Chapter 18.

    1: He who is estranged seeks pretexts to break out against all sound judgment.
    2: A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion.
    3: When wickedness comes, contempt comes also; and with dishonor comes disgrace.
    4: The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; the fountain of wisdom is a gushing stream.
    5: It is not good to be partial to a wicked man, or to deprive a righteous man of justice.
    6: A fool's lips bring strife, and his mouth invites a flogging.
    7: A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to himself.
    8: The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.
    9: He who is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys.
    10: The name of the LORD is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe.
    11: A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall protecting him.
    12: Before destruction a man's heart is haughty, but humility goes before honor.
    13: If one gives answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame.
    14: A man's spirit will endure sickness; but a broken spirit who can bear?
    15: An intelligent mind acquires knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge.
    16: A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before great men.
    17: He who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him.
    18: The lot puts an end to disputes and decides between powerful contenders.
    19: A brother helped is like a strong city, but quarreling is like the bars of a castle.
    20: From the fruit of his mouth a man is satisfied; he is satisfied by the yield of his lips.
    21: Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits.
    22: He who finds a wife finds a good thing, and obtains favor from the LORD.
    23: The poor use entreaties, but the rich answer roughly.
    24: There are friends who pretend to be friends, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a man who is perverse in speech, and is a fool.
    2: It is not good for a man to be without knowledge, and he who makes haste with his feet misses his way.
    3: When a man's folly brings his way to ruin, his heart rages against the LORD.
    4: Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend.
    5: A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who utters lies will not escape.
    6: Many seek the favor of a generous man, and every one is a friend to a man who gives gifts.
    7: All a poor man's brothers hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues them with words, but does not have them.
    8: He who gets wisdom loves himself; he who keeps understanding will prosper.
    9: A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who utters lies will perish.
    10: It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury, much less for a slave to rule over princes.
    11: Good sense makes a man slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
    12: A king's wrath is like the growling of a lion, but his favor is like dew upon the grass.
    13: A foolish son is ruin to his father, and a wife's quarreling is a continual dripping of rain.
    14: House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the LORD.
    15: Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and an idle person will suffer hunger.
    16: He who keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises the word will die.
    17: He who is kind to the poor lends to the LORD, and he will repay him for his deed.
    18: Discipline your son while there is hope; do not set your heart on his destruction.
    19: A man of great wrath will pay the penalty; for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again.
    20: Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom for the future.
    21: Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the LORD that will be established.
    22: What is desired in a man is loyalty, and a poor man is better than a liar.
    23: The fear of the LORD leads to life; and he who has it rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm.
    24: The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, and will not even bring it back to his mouth.
    25: Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain knowledge.
    26: He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
    27: Cease, my son, to hear instruction only to stray from the words of knowledge.
    28: A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
    29: Condemnation is ready for scoffers, and flogging for the backs of fools.

  Chapter 20.

    1: Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler; and whoever is led astray by it is not wise.
    2: The dread wrath of a king is like the growling of a lion; he who provokes him to anger forfeits his life.
    3: It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife; but every fool will be quarreling.
    4: The sluggard does not plow in the autumn; he will seek at harvest and have nothing.
    5: The purpose in a man's mind is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.
    6: Many a man proclaims his own loyalty, but a faithful man who can find?
    7: A righteous man who walks in his integrity -- blessed are his sons after him!
    8: A king who sits on the throne of judgment winnows all evil with his eyes.
    9: Who can say, "I have made my heart clean; I am pure from my sin"?
    10: Diverse weights and diverse measures are both alike an abomination to the LORD.
    11: Even a child makes himself known by his acts, whether what he does is pure and right.
    12: The hearing ear and the seeing eye, the LORD has made them both.
    13: Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes, and you will have plenty of bread.
    14: "It is bad, it is bad," says the buyer; but when he goes away, then he boasts.
    15: There is gold, and abundance of costly stones; but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
    16: Take a man's garment when he has given surety for a stranger, and hold him in pledge when he gives surety for foreigners.
    17: Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel.
    18: Plans are established by counsel; by wise guidance wage war.
    19: He who goes about gossiping reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with one who speaks foolishly.
    20: If one curses his father or his mother, his lamp will be put out in utter darkness.
    21: An inheritance gotten hastily in the beginning will in the end not be blessed.
    22: Do not say, "I will repay evil"; wait for the LORD, and he will help you.
    23: Diverse weights are an abomination to the LORD, and false scales are not good.
    24: A man's steps are ordered by the LORD; how then can man understand his way?
    25: It is a snare for a man to say rashly, "It is holy," and to reflect only after making his vows.
    26: A wise king winnows the wicked, and drives the wheel over them.
    27: The spirit of man is the lamp of the LORD, searching all his innermost parts.
    28: Loyalty and faithfulness preserve the king, and his throne is upheld by righteousness.
    29: The glory of young men is their strength, but the beauty of old men is their gray hair.
    30: Blows that wound cleanse away evil; strokes make clean the innermost parts.

End of day 186.