Day 146:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart; I will tell of all thy wonderful deeds.
    2: I will be glad and exult in thee, I will sing praise to thy name, O Most High.
    3: When my enemies turned back, they stumbled and perished before thee.
    4: For thou hast maintained my just cause; thou hast sat on the throne giving righteous judgment.
    5: Thou hast rebuked the nations, thou hast destroyed the wicked; thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
    6: The enemy have vanished in everlasting ruins; their cities thou hast rooted out; the very memory of them has perished.
    7: But the LORD sits enthroned for ever, he has established his throne for judgment;
    8: and he judges the world with righteousness, he judges the peoples with equity.
    9: The LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.
    10: And those who know thy name put their trust in thee, for thou, O LORD, hast not forsaken those who seek thee.
    11: Sing praises to the LORD, who dwells in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds!
    12: For he who avenges blood is mindful of them; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted.
    13: Be gracious to me, O LORD! Behold what I suffer from those who hate me, O thou who liftest me up from the gates of death,
    14: that I may recount all thy praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in thy deliverance.
    15: The nations have sunk in the pit which they made; in the net which they hid has their own foot been caught.
    16: The LORD has made himself known, he has executed judgment; the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. [Higgaion. Selah]
    17: The wicked shall depart to Sheol, all the nations that forget God.
    18: For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish for ever.
    19: Arise, O LORD! Let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before thee!
    20: Put them in fear, O LORD! Let the nations know that they are but men! [Selah]

  Chapter 10.

    1: Why dost thou stand afar off, O LORD? Why dost thou hide thyself in times of trouble?
    2: In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes which they have devised.
    3: For the wicked boasts of the desires of his heart, and the man greedy for gain curses and renounces the LORD.
    4: In the pride of his countenance the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, "There is no God."
    5: His ways prosper at all times; thy judgments are on high, out of his sight; as for all his foes, he puffs at them.
    6: He thinks in his heart, "I shall not be moved; throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity."
    7: His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression; under his tongue are mischief and iniquity.
    8: He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he murders the innocent. His eyes stealthily watch for the hapless,
    9: he lurks in secret like a lion in his covert; he lurks that he may seize the poor, he seizes the poor when he draws him into his net.
    10: The hapless is crushed, sinks down, and falls by his might.
    11: He thinks in his heart, "God has forgotten, he has hidden his face, he will never see it."
    12: Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thy hand; forget not the afflicted.
    13: Why does the wicked renounce God, and say in his heart, "Thou wilt not call to account"?
    14: Thou dost see; yea, thou dost note trouble and vexation, that thou mayest take it into thy hands; the hapless commits himself to thee; thou hast been the helper of the fatherless.
    15: Break thou the arm of the wicked and evildoer; seek out his wickedness till thou find none.
    16: The LORD is king for ever and ever; the nations shall perish from his land.
    17: O LORD, thou wilt hear the desire of the meek; thou wilt strengthen their heart, thou wilt incline thy ear
    18: to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more.

  Chapter 11.

    1: In the LORD I take refuge; how can you say to me, "Flee like a bird to the mountains;
    2: for lo, the wicked bend the bow, they have fitted their arrow to the string, to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart;
    3: if the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do"?
    4: The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven; his eyes behold, his eyelids test, the children of men.
    5: The LORD tests the righteous and the wicked, and his soul hates him that loves violence.
    6: On the wicked he will rain coals of fire and brimstone; a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.
    7: For the LORD is righteous, he loves righteous deeds; the upright shall behold his face.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Help, LORD; for there is no longer any that is godly; for the faithful have vanished from among the sons of men.
    2: Every one utters lies to his neighbor; with flattering lips and a double heart they speak.
    3: May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts,
    4: those who say, "With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is our master?"
    5: "Because the poor are despoiled, because the needy groan, I will now arise," says the LORD; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs."
    6: The promises of the LORD are promises that are pure, silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times.
    7: Do thou, O LORD, protect us, guard us ever from this generation.
    8: On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the sons of men.

End of day 146.