Day 304:

Reading John, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
    2: And during supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him,
    3: Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God,
    4: rose from supper, laid aside his garments, and girded himself with a towel.
    5: Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded.
    6: He came to Simon Peter; and Peter said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"
    7: Jesus answered him, "What I am doing you do not know now, but afterward you will understand."
    8: Peter said to him, "You shall never wash my feet." Jesus answered him, "If I do not wash you, you have no part in me."
    9: Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my head!"
    10: Jesus said to him, "He who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but he is clean all over; and you are clean, but not every one of you."
    11: For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, "You are not all clean."
    12: When he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and resumed his place, he said to them, "Do you know what I have done to you?
    13: You call me Teacher and Lord; and you are right, for so I am.
    14: If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
    15: For I have given you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you.
    16: Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master; nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him.
    17: If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
    18: I am not speaking of you all; I know whom I have chosen; it is that the scripture may be fulfilled, `He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.'
    19: I tell you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am he.
    20: Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives any one whom I send receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me."
    21: When Jesus had thus spoken, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, "Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me."
    22: The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke.
    23: One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was lying close to the breast of Jesus;
    24: so Simon Peter beckoned to him and said, "Tell us who it is of whom he speaks."
    25: So lying thus, close to the breast of Jesus, he said to him, "Lord, who is it?"
    26: Jesus answered, "It is he to whom I shall give this morsel when I have dipped it." So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
    27: Then after the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, "What you are going to do, do quickly."
    28: Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him.
    29: Some thought that, because Judas had the money box, Jesus was telling him, "Buy what we need for the feast"; or, that he should give something to the poor.
    30: So, after receiving the morsel, he immediately went out; and it was night.
    31: When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now is the Son of man glorified, and in him God is glorified;
    32: if God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him at once.
    33: Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me; and as I said to the Jews so now I say to you, `Where I am going you cannot come.'
    34: A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another; even as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
    35: By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."
    36: Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered, "Where I am going you cannot follow me now; but you shall follow afterward."
    37: Peter said to him, "Lord, why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you."
    38: Jesus answered, "Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the cock will not crow, till you have denied me three times.

  Chapter 14.

    1: "Let not your hearts be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.
    2: In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?
    3: And when I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.
    4: And you know the way where I am going."
    5: Thomas said to him, "Lord, we do not know where you are going; how can we know the way?"
    6: Jesus said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but by me.
    7: If you had known me, you would have known my Father also; henceforth you know him and have seen him."
    8: Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and we shall be satisfied."
    9: Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you so long, and yet you do not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; how can you say, `Show us the Father'?
    10: Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority; but the Father who dwells in me does his works.
    11: Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me; or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves.
    12: "Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me will also do the works that I do; and greater works than these will he do, because I go to the Father.
    13: Whatever you ask in my name, I will do it, that the Father may be glorified in the Son;
    14: if you ask anything in my name, I will do it.
    15: "If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
    16: And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, to be with you for ever,
    17: even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him; you know him, for he dwells with you, and will be in you.
    18: "I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you.
    19: Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me; because I live, you will live also.
    20: In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
    21: He who has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me; and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him."
    22: Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?"
    23: Jesus answered him, "If a man loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
    24: He who does not love me does not keep my words; and the word which you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.
    25: "These things I have spoken to you, while I am still with you.
    26: But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.
    27: Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.
    28: You heard me say to you, `I go away, and I will come to you.' If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I go to the Father; for the Father is greater than I.
    29: And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe.
    30: I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no power over me;
    31: but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go hence.

  Chapter 15.

    1: "I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser.
    2: Every branch of mine that bears no fruit, he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
    3: You are already made clean by the word which I have spoken to you.
    4: Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me.
    5: I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
    6: If a man does not abide in me, he is cast forth as a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned.
    7: If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you will, and it shall be done for you.
    8: By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples.
    9: As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you; abide in my love.
    10: If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love.
    11: These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full.
    12: "This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.
    13: Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
    14: You are my friends if you do what I command you.
    15: No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.
    16: You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide; so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
    17: This I command you, to love one another.
    18: "If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you.
    19: If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
    20: Remember the word that I said to you, `A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted me, they will persecute you; if they kept my word, they will keep yours also.
    21: But all this they will do to you on my account, because they do not know him who sent me.
    22: If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
    23: He who hates me hates my Father also.
    24: If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sin; but now they have seen and hated both me and my Father.
    25: It is to fulfil the word that is written in their law, `They hated me without a cause.'
    26: But when the Counselor comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness to me;
    27: and you also are witnesses, because you have been with me from the beginning.

  Chapter 16.

    1: "I have said all this to you to keep you from falling away.
    2: They will put you out of the synagogues; indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.
    3: And they will do this because they have not known the Father, nor me.
    4: But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told you of them. "I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
    5: But now I am going to him who sent me; yet none of you asks me, `Where are you going?'
    6: But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your hearts.
    7: Nevertheless I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Counselor will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you.
    8: And when he comes, he will convince the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:
    9: concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;
    10: concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no more;
    11: concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
    12: "I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
    13: When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth; for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
    14: He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
    15: All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
    16: "A little while, and you will see me no more; again a little while, and you will see me."
    17: Some of his disciples said to one another, "What is this that he says to us, `A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me'; and, `because I go to the Father'?"
    18: They said, "What does he mean by `a little while'? We do not know what he means."
    19: Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him; so he said to them, "Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, `A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me'?
    20: Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy.
    21: When a woman is in travail she has sorrow, because her hour has come; but when she is delivered of the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a child is born into the world.
    22: So you have sorrow now, but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
    23: In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask anything of the Father, he will give it to you in my name.
    24: Hitherto you have asked nothing in my name; ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
    25: "I have said this to you in figures; the hour is coming when I shall no longer speak to you in figures but tell you plainly of the Father.
    26: In that day you will ask in my name; and I do not say to you that I shall pray the Father for you;
    27: for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from the Father.
    28: I came from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and going to the Father."
    29: His disciples said, "Ah, now you are speaking plainly, not in any figure!
    30: Now we know that you know all things, and need none to question you; by this we believe that you came from God."
    31: Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?
    32: The hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, every man to his home, and will leave me alone; yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
    33: I have said this to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world."

End of day 304.