Day 242:

Reading Jeremiah, chapters ['49', '50', '51', '52']:

  Chapter 49.

    1: Concerning the Ammonites. Thus says the LORD: "Has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then has Milcom dispossessed Gad, and his people settled in its cities?
    2: Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will cause the battle cry to be heard against Rabbah of the Ammonites; it shall become a desolate mound, and its villages shall be burned with fire; then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the LORD.
    3: "Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste! Cry, O daughters of Rabbah! Gird yourselves with sackcloth, lament, and run to and fro among the hedges! For Milcom shall go into exile, with his priests and his princes.
    4: Why do you boast of your valleys, O faithless daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, `Who will come against me?'
    5: Behold, I will bring terror upon you, says the Lord GOD of hosts, from all who are round about you, and you shall be driven out, every man straight before him, with none to gather the fugitives.
    6: But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, says the LORD."
    7: Concerning Edom. Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
    8: Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan! For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time when I punish him.
    9: If grape-gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only enough for themselves?
    10: But I have stripped Esau bare, I have uncovered his hiding places, and he is not able to conceal himself. His children are destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors; and he is no more.
    11: Leave your fatherless children, I will keep them alive; and let your widows trust in me."
    12: For thus says the LORD: "If those who did not deserve to drink the cup must drink it, will you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you must drink.
    13: For I have sworn by myself, says the LORD, that Bozrah shall become a horror, a taunt, a waste, and a curse; and all her cities shall be perpetual wastes."
    14: I have heard tidings from the LORD, and a messenger has been sent among the nations: "Gather yourselves together and come against her, and rise up for battle!"
    15: For behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among men.
    16: The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down from there, says the LORD.
    17: "Edom shall become a horror; every one who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its disasters.
    18: As when Sodom and Gomor'rah and their neighbor cities were overthrown, says the LORD, no man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her.
    19: Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a strong sheepfold, I will suddenly make them run away from her; and I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
    20: Therefore hear the plan which the LORD has made against Edom and the purposes which he has formed against the inhabitants of Teman: Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away; surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
    21: At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; the sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea.
    22: Behold, one shall mount up and fly swiftly like an eagle, and spread his wings against Bozrah, and the heart of the warriors of Edom shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her pangs."
    23: Concerning Damascus. "Hamath and Arpad are confounded, for they have heard evil tidings; they melt in fear, they are troubled like the sea which cannot be quiet.
    24: Damascus has become feeble, she turned to flee, and panic seized her; anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
    25: How the famous city is forsaken, the joyful city!
    26: Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day, says the LORD of hosts.
    27: And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-ha'dad."
    28: Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor which Nebuchadrez'zar king of Babylon smote. Thus says the LORD: "Rise up, advance against Kedar! Destroy the people of the east!
    29: Their tents and their flocks shall be taken, their curtains and all their goods; their camels shall be borne away from them, and men shall cry to them: `Terror on every side!'
    30: Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor! says the LORD. For Nebuchadrez'zar king of Babylon has made a plan against you, and formed a purpose against you.
    31: "Rise up, advance against a nation at ease, that dwells securely, says the LORD, that has no gates or bars, that dwells alone.
    32: Their camels shall become booty, their herds of cattle a spoil. I will scatter to every wind those who cut the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, says the LORD.
    33: Hazor shall become a haunt of jackals, an everlasting waste; no man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her."
    34: The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedeki'ah king of Judah.
    35: Thus says the LORD of hosts: "Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the mainstay of their might;
    36: and I will bring upon Elam the four winds from the four quarters of heaven; and I will scatter them to all those winds, and there shall be no nation to which those driven out of Elam shall not come.
    37: I will terrify Elam before their enemies, and before those who seek their life; I will bring evil upon them, my fierce anger, says the LORD. I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them;
    38: and I will set my throne in Elam, and destroy their king and princes, says the LORD.
    39: "But in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, says the LORD."

  Chapter 50.

    1: The word which the LORD spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chalde'ans, by Jeremiah the prophet:
    2: "Declare among the nations and proclaim, set up a banner and proclaim, conceal it not, and say: `Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Mer'odach is dismayed. Her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed.'
    3: "For out of the north a nation has come up against her, which shall make her land a desolation, and none shall dwell in it; both man and beast shall flee away.
    4: "In those days and in that time, says the LORD, the people of Israel and the people of Judah shall come together, weeping as they come; and they shall seek the LORD their God.
    5: They shall ask the way to Zion, with faces turned toward it, saying, `Come, let us join ourselves to the LORD in an everlasting covenant which will never be forgotten.'
    6: "My people have been lost sheep; their shepherds have led them astray, turning them away on the mountains; from mountain to hill they have gone, they have forgotten their fold.
    7: All who found them have devoured them, and their enemies have said, `We are not guilty, for they have sinned against the LORD, their true habitation, the LORD, the hope of their fathers.'
    8: "Flee from the midst of Babylon, and go out of the land of the Chalde'ans, and be as he-goats before the flock.
    9: For behold, I am stirring up and bringing against Babylon a company of great nations, from the north country; and they shall array themselves against her; from there she shall be taken. Their arrows are like a skilled warrior who does not return empty-handed.
    10: Chalde'a shall be plundered; all who plunder her shall be sated, says the LORD.
    11: "Though you rejoice, though you exult, O plunderers of my heritage, though you are wanton as a heifer at grass, and neigh like stallions,
    12: your mother shall be utterly shamed, and she who bore you shall be disgraced. Lo, she shall be the last of the nations, a wilderness dry and desert.
    13: Because of the wrath of the LORD she shall not be inhabited, but shall be an utter desolation; every one who passes by Babylon shall be appalled, and hiss because of all her wounds.
    14: Set yourselves in array against Babylon round about, all you that bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows, for she has sinned against the LORD.
    15: Raise a shout against her round about, she has surrendered; her bulwarks have fallen, her walls are thrown down. For this is the vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance on her, do to her as she has done.
    16: Cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest; because of the sword of the oppressor, every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land.
    17: "Israel is a hunted sheep driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him, and now at last Nebuchadrez'zar king of Babylon has gnawed his bones.
    18: Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing punishment on the king of Babylon and his land, as I punished the king of Assyria.
    19: I will restore Israel to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and in Bashan, and his desire shall be satisfied on the hills of E'phraim and in Gilead.
    20: In those days and in that time, says the LORD, iniquity shall be sought in Israel, and there shall be none; and sin in Judah, and none shall be found; for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant.
    21: "Go up against the land of Meratha'im, and against the inhabitants of Pekod. Slay, and utterly destroy after them, says the LORD, and do all that I have commanded you.
    22: The noise of battle is in the land, and great destruction!
    23: How the hammer of the whole earth is cut down and broken! How Babylon has become a horror among the nations!
    24: I set a snare for you and you were taken, O Babylon, and you did not know it; you were found and caught, because you strove against the LORD.
    25: The LORD has opened his armory, and brought out the weapons of his wrath, for the Lord GOD of hosts has a work to do in the land of the Chalde'ans.
    26: Come against her from every quarter; open her granaries; pile her up like heaps of grain, and destroy her utterly; let nothing be left of her.
    27: Slay all her bulls, let them go down to the slaughter. Woe to them, for their day has come, the time of their punishment.
    28: "Hark! they flee and escape from the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, vengeance for his temple.
    29: "Summon archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow. Encamp round about her; let no one escape. Requite her according to her deeds, do to her according to all that she has done; for she has proudly defied the LORD, the Holy One of Israel.
    30: Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day, says the LORD.
    31: "Behold, I am against you, O proud one, says the Lord GOD of hosts; for your day has come, the time when I will punish you.
    32: The proud one shall stumble and fall, with none to raise him up, and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it will devour all that is round about him.
    33: "Thus says the LORD of hosts: The people of Israel are oppressed, and the people of Judah with them; all who took them captive have held them fast, they refuse to let them go.
    34: Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name. He will surely plead their cause, that he may give rest to the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon.
    35: "A sword upon the Chalde'ans, says the LORD, and upon the inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes and her wise men!
    36: A sword upon the diviners, that they may become fools! A sword upon her warriors, that they may be destroyed!
    37: A sword upon her horses and upon her chariots, and upon all the foreign troops in her midst, that they may become women! A sword upon all her treasures, that they may be plundered!
    38: A drought upon her waters, that they may be dried up! For it is a land of images, and they are mad over idols.
    39: "Therefore wild beasts shall dwell with hyenas in Babylon, and ostriches shall dwell in her; she shall be peopled no more for ever, nor inhabited for all generations.
    40: As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomor'rah and their neighbor cities, says the LORD, so no man shall dwell there, and no son of man shall sojourn in her.
    41: "Behold, a people comes from the north; a mighty nation and many kings are stirring from the farthest parts of the earth.
    42: They lay hold of bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the roaring of the sea; they ride upon horses, arrayed as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Babylon!
    43: "The king of Babylon heard the report of them, and his hands fell helpless; anguish seized him, pain as of a woman in travail.
    44: "Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a strong sheepfold, I will suddenly make them run away from her; and I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
    45: Therefore hear the plan which the LORD has made against Babylon, and the purposes which he has formed against the land of the Chalde'ans: Surely the little ones of their flock shall be dragged away; surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
    46: At the sound of the capture of Babylon the earth shall tremble, and her cry shall be heard among the nations."

  Chapter 51.

    1: Thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon, against the inhabitants of Chalde'a;
    2: and I will send to Babylon winnowers, and they shall winnow her, and they shall empty her land, when they come against her from every side on the day of trouble.
    3: Let not the archer bend his bow, and let him not stand up in his coat of mail. Spare not her young men; utterly destroy all her host.
    4: They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chalde'ans, and wounded in her streets.
    5: For Israel and Judah have not been forsaken by their God, the LORD of hosts; but the land of the Chalde'ans is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel.
    6: "Flee from the midst of Babylon, let every man save his life! Be not cut off in her punishment, for this is the time of the LORD's vengeance, the requital he is rendering her.
    7: Babylon was a golden cup in the LORD's hand, making all the earth drunken; the nations drank of her wine, therefore the nations went mad.
    8: Suddenly Babylon has fallen and been broken; wail for her! Take balm for her pain; perhaps she may be healed.
    9: We would have healed Babylon, but she was not healed. Forsake her, and let us go each to his own country; for her judgment has reached up to heaven and has been lifted up even to the skies.
    10: The LORD has brought forth our vindication; come, let us declare in Zion the work of the LORD our God.
    11: "Sharpen the arrows! Take up the shields! The LORD has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes, because his purpose concerning Babylon is to destroy it, for that is the vengeance of the LORD, the vengeance for his temple.
    12: Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon; make the watch strong; set up watchmen; prepare the ambushes; for the LORD has both planned and done what he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
    13: O you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come, the thread of your life is cut.
    14: The LORD of hosts has sworn by himself: Surely I will fill you with men, as many as locusts, and they shall raise the shout of victory over you.
    15: "It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.
    16: When he utters his voice there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightnings for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
    17: Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols; for his images are false, and there is no breath in them.
    18: They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
    19: Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
    20: "You are my hammer and weapon of war: with you I break nations in pieces; with you I destroy kingdoms;
    21: with you I break in pieces the horse and his rider; with you I break in pieces the chariot and the charioteer;
    22: with you I break in pieces man and woman; with you I break in pieces the old man and the youth; with you I break in pieces the young man and the maiden;
    23: with you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; with you I break in pieces the farmer and his team; with you I break in pieces governors and commanders.
    24: "I will requite Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chalde'a before your very eyes for all the evil that they have done in Zion, says the LORD.
    25: "Behold, I am against you, O destroying mountain, says the LORD, which destroys the whole earth; I will stretch out my hand against you, and roll you down from the crags, and make you a burnt mountain.
    26: No stone shall be taken from you for a corner and no stone for a foundation, but you shall be a perpetual waste, says the LORD.
    27: "Set up a standard on the earth, blow the trumpet among the nations; prepare the nations for war against her, summon against her the kingdoms, Ar'arat, Minni, and Ash'kenaz; appoint a marshal against her, bring up horses like bristling locusts.
    28: Prepare the nations for war against her, the kings of the Medes, with their governors and deputies, and every land under their dominion.
    29: The land trembles and writhes in pain, for the LORD's purposes against Babylon stand, to make the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
    30: The warriors of Babylon have ceased fighting, they remain in their strongholds; their strength has failed, they have become women; her dwellings are on fire, her bars are broken.
    31: One runner runs to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to tell the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every side;
    32: the fords have been seized, the bulwarks are burned with fire, and the soldiers are in panic.
    33: For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it is trodden; yet a little while and the time of her harvest will come."
    34: "Nebuchadrez'zar the king of Babylon has devoured me, he has crushed me; he has made me an empty vessel, he has swallowed me like a monster; he has filled his belly with my delicacies, he has rinsed me out.
    35: The violence done to me and to my kinsmen be upon Babylon," let the inhabitant of Zion say. "My blood be upon the inhabitants of Chalde'a," let Jerusalem say.
    36: Therefore thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will plead your cause and take vengeance for you. I will dry up her sea and make her fountain dry;
    37: and Babylon shall become a heap of ruins, the haunt of jackals, a horror and a hissing, without inhabitant.
    38: "They shall roar together like lions; they shall growl like lions' whelps.
    39: While they are inflamed I will prepare them a feast and make them drunk, till they swoon away and sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, says the LORD.
    40: I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and he-goats.
    41: "How Babylon is taken, the praise of the whole earth seized! How Babylon has become a horror among the nations!
    42: The sea has come up on Babylon; she is covered with its tumultuous waves.
    43: Her cities have become a horror, a land of drought and a desert, a land in which no one dwells, and through which no son of man passes.
    44: And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and take out of his mouth what he has swallowed. The nations shall no longer flow to him; the wall of Babylon has fallen.
    45: "Go out of the midst of her, my people! Let every man save his life from the fierce anger of the LORD!
    46: Let not your heart faint, and be not fearful at the report heard in the land, when a report comes in one year and afterward a report in another year, and violence is in the land, and ruler is against ruler.
    47: "Therefore, behold, the days are coming when I will punish the images of Babylon; her whole land shall be put to shame, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
    48: Then the heavens and the earth, and all that is in them, shall sing for joy over Babylon; for the destroyers shall come against them out of the north, says the LORD.
    49: Babylon must fall for the slain of Israel, as for Babylon have fallen the slain of all the earth.
    50: "You that have escaped from the sword, go, stand not still! Remember the LORD from afar, and let Jerusalem come into your mind:
    51: `We are put to shame, for we have heard reproach; dishonor has covered our face, for aliens have come into the holy places of the LORD's house.'
    52: "Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will execute judgment upon her images, and through all her land the wounded shall groan.
    53: Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify her strong height, yet destroyers would come from me upon her, says the LORD.
    54: "Hark! a cry from Babylon! The noise of great destruction from the land of the Chalde'ans!
    55: For the LORD is laying Babylon waste, and stilling her mighty voice. Their waves roar like many waters, the noise of their voice is raised;
    56: for a destroyer has come upon her, upon Babylon; her warriors are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for the LORD is a God of recompense, he will surely requite.
    57: I will make drunk her princes and her wise men, her governors, her commanders, and her warriors; they shall sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, says the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
    58: "Thus says the LORD of hosts: The broad wall of Babylon shall be leveled to the ground and her high gates shall be burned with fire. The peoples labor for nought, and the nations weary themselves only for fire."
    59: The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Serai'ah the son of Neri'ah, son of Mahsei'ah, when he went with Zedeki'ah king of Judah to Babylon, in the fourth year of his reign. Serai'ah was the quartermaster.
    60: Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come upon Babylon, all these words that are written concerning Babylon.
    61: And Jeremiah said to Serai'ah: "When you come to Babylon, see that you read all these words,
    62: and say, `O LORD, thou hast said concerning this place that thou wilt cut it off, so that nothing shall dwell in it, neither man nor beast, and it shall be desolate for ever.'
    63: When you finish reading this book, bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of the Euphra'tes,
    64: and say, `Thus shall Babylon sink, to rise no more, because of the evil that I am bringing upon her.'" Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.

  Chapter 52.

    1: Zedeki'ah was twenty-one years old when he became king; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamu'tal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
    2: And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoi'akim had done.
    3: Surely because of the anger of the LORD things came to such a pass in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out from his presence. And Zedeki'ah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
    4: And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadrez'zar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem, and they laid siege to it and built siegeworks against it round about.
    5: So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedeki'ah.
    6: On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city, that there was no food for the people of the land.
    7: Then a breach was made in the city; and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by the way of a gate between the two walls, by the king's garden, while the Chalde'ans were round about the city. And they went in the direction of the Arabah.
    8: But the army of the Chalde'ans pursued the king, and overtook Zedeki'ah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
    9: Then they captured the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence upon him.
    10: The king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedeki'ah before his eyes, and also slew all the princes of Judah at Riblah.
    11: He put out the eyes of Zedeki'ah, and bound him in fetters, and the king of Babylon took him to Babylon, and put him in prison till the day of his death.
    12: In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month -- which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadrez'zar, king of Babylon -- Nebu'zarad'an the captain of the bodyguard who served the king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem.
    13: And he burned the house of the LORD, and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down.
    14: And all the army of the Chalde'ans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls round about Jerusalem.
    15: And Nebu'zarad'an the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the artisans.
    16: But Nebu'zarad'an the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
    17: And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the LORD, and the stands and the bronze sea that were in the house of the LORD, the Chalde'ans broke in pieces, and carried all the bronze to Babylon.
    18: And they took away the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the dishes for incense, and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service;
    19: also the small bowls, and the firepans, and the basins, and the pots, and the lampstands, and the dishes for incense, and the bowls for libation. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver, as silver.
    20: As for the two pillars, the one sea, the twelve bronze bulls which were under the sea, and the stands, which Solomon the king had made for the house of the LORD, the bronze of all these things was beyond weight.
    21: As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits, and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.
    22: Upon it was a capital of bronze; the height of the one capital was five cubits; a network and pomegranates, all of bronze, were upon the capital round about. And the second pillar had the like, with pomegranates.
    23: There were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were a hundred upon the network round about.
    24: And the captain of the guard took Serai'ah the chief priest, and Zephani'ah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold;
    25: and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of the king's council, who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
    26: And Nebu'zarad'an the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
    27: And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried captive out of its land.
    28: This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadrez'zar carried away captive: in the seventh year, three thousand and twenty-three Jews;
    29: in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrez'zar he carried away captive from Jerusalem eight hundred and thirty-two persons;
    30: in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadrez'zar, Nebu'zarad'an the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred and forty-five persons; all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.
    31: And in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoi'achin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fifth day of the month, E'vil-mer'odach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, lifted up the head of Jehoi'achin king of Judah and brought him out of prison;
    32: and he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
    33: So Jehoi'achin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table;
    34: as for his allowance, a regualar allowance was given him by the king according to his daily need, until the day of his death as long as he lived.

End of day 242.