Day 145:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Give ear to my words, O LORD; give heed to my groaning.
    2: Hearken to the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to thee do I pray.
    3: O LORD, in the morning thou dost hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for thee, and watch.
    4: For thou art not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not sojourn with thee.
    5: The boastful may not stand before thy eyes; thou hatest all evildoers.
    6: Thou destroyest those who speak lies; the LORD abhors bloodthirsty and deceitful men.
    7: But I through the abundance of thy steadfast love will enter thy house, I will worship toward thy holy temple in the fear of thee.
    8: Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of my enemies; make thy way straight before me.
    9: For there is no truth in their mouth; their heart is destruction, their throat is an open sepulchre, they flatter with their tongue.
    10: Make them bear their guilt, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; because of their many transgressions cast them out, for they have rebelled against thee.
    11: But let all who take refuge in thee rejoice, let them ever sing for joy; and do thou defend them, that those who love thy name may exult in thee.
    12: For thou dost bless the righteous, O LORD; thou dost cover him with favor as with a shield.

  Chapter 6.

    1: O LORD, rebuke me not in thy anger, nor chasten me in thy wrath.
    2: Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am languishing; O LORD, heal me, for my bones are troubled.
    3: My soul also is sorely troubled. But thou, O LORD -- how long?
    4: Turn, O LORD, save my life; deliver me for the sake of thy steadfast love.
    5: For in death there is no remembrance of thee; in Sheol who can give thee praise?
    6: I am weary with my moaning; every night I flood my bed with tears; I drench my couch with my weeping.
    7: My eye wastes away because of grief, it grows weak because of all my foes.
    8: Depart from me, all you workers of evil; for the LORD has heard the sound of my weeping.
    9: The LORD has heard my supplication; the LORD accepts my prayer.
    10: All my enemies shall be ashamed and sorely troubled; they shall turn back, and be put to shame in a moment.

  Chapter 7.

    1: O LORD my God, in thee do I take refuge; save me from all my pursuers, and deliver me,
    2: lest like a lion they rend me, dragging me away, with none to rescue.
    3: O LORD my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands,
    4: if I have requited my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause,
    5: let the enemy pursue me and overtake me, and let him trample my life to the ground, and lay my soul in the dust. [Selah]
    6: Arise, O LORD, in thy anger, lift thyself up against the fury of my enemies; awake, O my God; thou hast appointed a judgment.
    7: Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about thee; and over it take thy seat on high.
    8: The LORD judges the peoples; judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness and according to the integrity that is in me.
    9: O let the evil of the wicked come to an end, but establish thou the righteous, thou who triest the minds and hearts, thou righteous God.
    10: My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart.
    11: God is a righteous judge, and a God who has indignation every day.
    12: If a man does not repent, God will whet his sword; he has bent and strung his bow;
    13: he has prepared his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts.
    14: Behold, the wicked man conceives evil, and is pregnant with mischief, and brings forth lies.
    15: He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole which he has made.
    16: His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own pate his violence descends.
    17: I will give to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the LORD, the Most High.

  Chapter 8.

    1: O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth! Thou whose glory above the heavens is chanted
    2: by the mouth of babes and infants, thou hast founded a bulwark because of thy foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.
    3: When I look at thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast established;
    4: what is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou dost care for him?
    5: Yet thou hast made him little less than God, and dost crown him with glory and honor.
    6: Thou hast given him dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet,
    7: all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field,
    8: the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the sea.
    9: O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth!

End of day 145.