Day 115:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then Tobias called Raphael and said to him,
    2: "Brother Azarias, take a servant and two camels with you and go to Gabael at Rages in Media and get the money for me; and bring him to the wedding feast.
    3: For Raguel has sworn that I should not leave;
    4: but my father is counting the days, and if I delay long he will be greatly distressed."
    5: So Raphael made the journey and stayed over night with Gabael. He gave him the receipt, and Gabael brought out the money bags with their seals intact and gave them to him.
    6: In the morning they both got up early and came to the wedding feast. And Gabael blessed Tobias and his wife.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now his father Tobit was counting each day, and when the days for the journey had expired and they did not arrive,
    2: he said, "Is it possible that he has been detained? Or is it possible that Gabael has died and there is no one to give him the money?"
    3: And he was greatly distressed.
    4: And his wife said to him, "The lad has perished; his long delay proves it." Then she began to mourn for him, and said,
    5: "Am I not distressed, my child, that I let you go, you who are the light of my eyes?"
    6: But Tobit said to her, "Be still and stop worrying; he is well."
    7: And she answered him, "Be still and stop deceiving me; my child has perished." And she went out every day to the road by which they had left; she ate nothing in the daytime, and throughout the nights she never stopped mourning for her son Tobias, until the fourteen days of the wedding feast had expired which Raguel had sworn that he should spend there. At that time Tobias said to Raguel, "Send me back, for my father and mother have given up hope of ever seeing me again."
    8: But his father-in-law said to him, "Stay with me, and I will send messengers to your father, and they will inform him how things are with you."
    9: Tobias replied, "No, send me back to my father."
    10: So Raguel arose and gave him his wife Sarah and half of his property in slaves, cattle, and money.
    11: And when he had blessed them he sent them away, saying, "The God of heaven will prosper you, my children, before I die."
    12: He said also to his daughter, "Honor your father-in-law and your mother-in-law; they are now your parents. Let me hear a good report of you. " And he kissed her. And Edna said to Tobias, "The Lord of heaven bring you back safely, dear brother, and grant me to see your children by my daughter Sarah, that I may rejoice before the Lord. See, I am entrusting my daughter to you; do nothing to grieve her."

  Chapter 11.

    1: After this Tobias went on his way, praising God because he had made his journey a success. And he blessed Raguel and his wife Edna. So he continued on his way until they came near to Nineveh.
    2: Then Raphael said to Tobias, "Are you not aware, brother, of how you left your father?
    3: Let us run ahead of your wife and prepare the house.
    4: And take the gall of the fish with you." So they went their way, and the dog went along behind them.
    5: Now Anna sat looking intently down the road for her son.
    6: And she caught sight of him coming, and said to his father, "Behold, your son is coming, and so is the man who went with him!"
    7: Raphael said, "I know, Tobias, that your father will open his eyes.
    8: You therefore must anoint his eyes with the gall; and when they smart he will rub them, and will cause the white films to fall away, and he will see you."
    9: Then Anna ran to meet them, and embraced her son, and said to him, "I have seen you, my child; now I am ready to die." And they both wept.
    10: Tobit started toward the door, and stumbled. But his son ran to him
    11: and took hold of his father, and he sprinkled the gall upon his father's eyes, saying, "Be of good cheer, father."
    12: And when his eyes began to smart he rubbed them,
    13: and the white films scaled off from the corners of his eyes.
    14: Then he saw his son and embraced him, and he wept and said, "Blessed art thou, O God, and blessed is thy name for ever, and blessed are all thy holy angels.
    15: For thou hast afflicted me, but thou hast had mercy upon me; here I see my son Tobias!" And his son went in rejoicing, and he reported to his father the great things that had happened to him in Media.
    16: Then Tobit went out to meet his daughter-in-law at the gate of Nineveh, rejoicing and praising God. Those who saw him as he went were amazed because he could see.
    17: And Tobit gave thanks before them that God had been merciful to him. When Tobit came near to Sarah his daughter-in-law, he blessed her, saying, "Welcome, daughter! Blessed is God who has brought you to us, and blessed are your father and your mother." So there was rejoicing among all his brethren in Nineveh.
    18: Ahikar and his nephew Nadab came,
    19: and Tobias' marriage was celebrated for seven days with great festivity.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Tobit then called his son Tobias and said to him, "My son, see to the wages of the man who went with you; and he must also be given more."
    2: He replied, "Father, it would do me no harm to give him half of what I have brought back.
    3: For he has led me back to you safely, he cured my wife, he obtained the money for me, and he also healed you."
    4: The old man said, "He deserves it."
    5: So he called the angel and said to him, "Take half of all that you two have brought back."
    6: Then the angel called the two of them privately and said to them: "Praise God and give thanks to him; exalt him and give thanks to him in the presence of all the living for what he has done for you. It is good to praise God and to exalt his name, worthily declaring the works of God. Do not be slow to give him thanks.
    7: It is good to guard the secret of a king, but gloriously to reveal the works of God. Do good, and evil will not overtake you.
    8: Prayer is good when accompanied by fasting, almsgiving, and righteousness. A little with righteousness is better than much with wrongdoing. It is better to give alms than to treasure up gold.
    9: For almsgiving delivers from death, and it will purge away every sin. Those who perform deeds of charity and of righteousness will have fulness of life;
    10: but those who commit sin are the enemies of their own lives.
    11: "I will not conceal anything from you. I have said, `It is good to guard the secret of a king, but gloriously to reveal the works of God.'
    12: And so, when you and your daughter-in-law Sarah prayed, I brought a reminder of your prayer before the Holy One; and when you buried the dead, I was likewise present with you.
    13: When you did not hesitate to rise and leave your dinner in order to go and lay out the dead, your good deed was not hidden from me, but I was with you.
    14: So now God sent me to heal you and your daughter-in-law Sarah.
    15: I am Raphael, one of the seven holy angels who present the prayers of the saints and enter into the presence of the glory of the Holy One."
    16: They were both alarmed; and they fell upon their faces, for they were afraid.
    17: But he said to them, "Do not be afraid; you will be safe. But praise God for ever.
    18: For I did not come as a favor on my part, but by the will of our God. Therefore praise him for ever.
    19: All these days I merely appeared to you and did not eat or drink, but you were seeing a vision.
    20: And now give thanks to God, for I am ascending to him who sent me. Write in a book everything that has happened."
    21: Then they stood up; but they saw him no more.
    22: So they confessed the great and wonderful works of God, and acknowledged that the angel of the Lord had appeared to them.

End of day 115.