Day 138:

Reading Job, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Then Job answered:
    2: "Listen carefully to my words, and let this be your consolation.
    3: Bear with me, and I will speak, and after I have spoken, mock on.
    4: As for me, is my complaint against man? Why should I not be impatient?
    5: Look at me, and be appalled, and lay your hand upon your mouth.
    6: When I think of it I am dismayed, and shuddering seizes my flesh.
    7: Why do the wicked live, reach old age, and grow mighty in power?
    8: Their children are established in their presence, and their offspring before their eyes.
    9: Their houses are safe from fear, and no rod of God is upon them.
    10: Their bull breeds without fail; their cow calves, and does not cast her calf.
    11: They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance.
    12: They sing to the tambourine and the lyre, and rejoice to the sound of the pipe.
    13: They spend their days in prosperity, and in peace they go down to Sheol.
    14: They say to God, `Depart from us! We do not desire the knowledge of thy ways.
    15: What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? And what profit do we get if we pray to him?'
    16: Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand? The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
    17: "How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? That their calamity comes upon them? That God distributes pains in his anger?
    18: That they are like straw before the wind, and like chaff that the storm carries away?
    19: You say, `God stores up their iniquity for their sons.' Let him recompense it to themselves, that they may know it.
    20: Let their own eyes see their destruction, and let them drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
    21: For what do they care for their houses after them, when the number of their months is cut off?
    22: Will any teach God knowledge, seeing that he judges those that are on high?
    23: One dies in full prosperity, being wholly at ease and secure,
    24: his body full of fat and the marrow of his bones moist.
    25: Another dies in bitterness of soul, never having tasted of good.
    26: They lie down alike in the dust, and the worms cover them.
    27: "Behold, I know your thoughts, and your schemes to wrong me.
    28: For you say, `Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked dwelt?'
    29: Have you not asked those who travel the roads, and do you not accept their testimony
    30: that the wicked man is spared in the day of calamity, that he is rescued in the day of wrath?
    31: Who declares his way to his face, and who requites him for what he has done?
    32: When he is borne to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb.
    33: The clods of the valley are sweet to him; all men follow after him, and those who go before him are innumerable.
    34: How then will you comfort me with empty nothings? There is nothing left of your answers but falsehood."

  Chapter 22.

    1: Then Eli'phaz the Te'manite answered:
    2: "Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.
    3: Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are righteous, or is it gain to him if you make your ways blameless?
    4: Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you, and enters into judgment with you?
    5: Is not your wickedness great? There is no end to your iniquities.
    6: For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
    7: You have given no water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
    8: The man with power possessed the land, and the favored man dwelt in it.
    9: You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless were crushed.
    10: Therefore snares are round about you, and sudden terror overwhelms you;
    11: your light is darkened, so that you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you.
    12: "Is not God high in the heavens? See the highest stars, how lofty they are!
    13: Therefore you say, `What does God know? Can he judge through the deep darkness?
    14: Thick clouds enwrap him, so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven.'
    15: Will you keep to the old way which wicked men have trod?
    16: They were snatched away before their time; their foundation was washed away.
    17: They said to God, `Depart from us,' and `What can the Almighty do to us?'
    18: Yet he filled their houses with good things -- but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
    19: The righteous see it and are glad; the innocent laugh them to scorn,
    20: saying, `Surely our adversaries are cut off, and what they left the fire has consumed.'
    21: "Agree with God, and be at peace; thereby good will come to you.
    22: Receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart.
    23: If you return to the Almighty and humble yourself, if you remove unrighteousness far from your tents,
    24: if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent bed,
    25: and if the Almighty is your gold, and your precious silver;
    26: then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and lift up your face to God.
    27: You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you; and you will pay your vows.
    28: You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
    29: For God abases the proud, but he saves the lowly.
    30: He delivers the innocent man; you will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands."

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then Job answered:
    2: "Today also my complaint is bitter, his hand is heavy in spite of my groaning.
    3: Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat!
    4: I would lay my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments.
    5: I would learn what he would answer me, and understand what he would say to me.
    6: Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? No; he would give heed to me.
    7: There an upright man could reason with him, and I should be acquitted for ever by my judge.
    8: "Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I cannot perceive him;
    9: on the left hand I seek him, but I cannot behold him; I turn to the right hand, but I cannot see him.
    10: But he knows the way that I take; when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold.
    11: My foot has held fast to his steps; I have kept his way and have not turned aside.
    12: I have not departed from the commandment of his lips; I have treasured in my bosom the words of his mouth.
    13: But he is unchangeable and who can turn him? What he desires, that he does.
    14: For he will complete what he appoints for me; and many such things are in his mind.
    15: Therefore I am terrified at his presence; when I consider, I am in dread of him.
    16: God has made my heart faint; the Almighty has terrified me;
    17: for I am hemmed in by darkness, and thick darkness covers my face.

  Chapter 24.

    1: "Why are not times of judgment kept by the Almighty, and why do those who know him never see his days?
    2: Men remove landmarks; they seize flocks and pasture them.
    3: They drive away the ass of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge.
    4: They thrust the poor off the road; the poor of the earth all hide themselves.
    5: Behold, like wild asses in the desert they go forth to their toil, seeking prey in the wilderness as food for their children.
    6: They gather their fodder in the field and they glean the vineyard of the wicked man.
    7: They lie all night naked, without clothing, and have no covering in the cold.
    8: They are wet with the rain of the mountains, and cling to the rock for want of shelter.
    9: (There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and take in pledge the infant of the poor.)
    10: They go about naked, without clothing; hungry, they carry the sheaves;
    11: among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil; they tread the wine presses, but suffer thirst.
    12: From out of the city the dying groan, and the soul of the wounded cries for help; yet God pays no attention to their prayer.
    13: "There are those who rebel against the light, who are not acquainted with its ways, and do not stay in its paths.
    14: The murderer rises in the dark, that he may kill the poor and needy; and in the night he is as a thief.
    15: The eye of the adulterer also waits for the twilight, saying, `No eye will see me'; and he disguises his face.
    16: In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves up; they do not know the light.
    17: For deep darkness is morning to all of them; for they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness.
    18: "You say, "They are swiftly carried away upon the face of the waters; their portion is cursed in the land; no treader turns toward their vineyards.
    19: Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters; so does Sheol those who have sinned.
    20: The squares of the town forget them; their name is no longer remembered; so wickedness is broken like a tree.'
    21: "They feed on the barren childless woman, and do no good to the widow.
    22: Yet God prolongs the life of the mighty by his power; they rise up when they despair of life.
    23: He gives them security, and they are supported; and his eyes are upon their ways.
    24: They are exalted a little while, and then are gone; they wither and fade like the mallow; they are cut off like the heads of grain.
    25: If it is not so, who will prove me a liar, and show that there is nothing in what I say?"

End of day 138.