Day 163:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['77', '78', '79', '80']:

  Chapter 77.

    1: I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, that he may hear me.
    2: In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying; my soul refuses to be comforted.
    3: I think of God, and I moan; I meditate, and my spirit faints. [Selah]
    4: Thou dost hold my eyelids from closing; I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
    5: I consider the days of old, I remember the years long ago.
    6: I commune with my heart in the night; I meditate and search my spirit:
    7: "Will the Lord spurn for ever, and never again be favorable?
    8: Has his steadfast love for ever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time?
    9: Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion?" [Selah]
    10: And I say, "It is my grief that the right hand of the Most High has changed."
    11: I will call to mind the deeds of the LORD; yea, I will remember thy wonders of old.
    12: I will meditate on all thy work, and muse on thy mighty deeds.
    13: Thy way, O God, is holy. What god is great like our God?
    14: Thou art the God who workest wonders, who hast manifested thy might among the peoples.
    15: Thou didst with thy arm redeem thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. [Selah]
    16: When the waters saw thee, O God, when the waters saw thee, they were afraid, yea, the deep trembled.
    17: The clouds poured out water; the skies gave forth thunder; thy arrows flashed on every side.
    18: The crash of thy thunder was in the whirlwind; thy lightnings lighted up the world; the earth trembled and shook.
    19: Thy way was through the sea, thy path through the great waters; yet thy footprints were unseen.
    20: Thou didst lead thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

  Chapter 78.

    1: Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth!
    2: I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings from of old,
    3: things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us.
    4: We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the LORD, and his might, and the wonders which he has wrought.
    5: He established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children;
    6: that the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children,
    7: so that they should set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments;
    8: and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God.
    9: The E'phraimites, armed with the bow, turned back on the day of battle.
    10: They did not keep God's covenant, but refused to walk according to his law.
    11: They forgot what he had done, and the miracles that he had shown them.
    12: In the sight of their fathers he wrought marvels in the land of Egypt, in the fields of Zo'an.
    13: He divided the sea and let them pass through it, and made the waters stand like a heap.
    14: In the daytime he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a fiery light.
    15: He cleft rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep.
    16: He made streams come out of the rock, and caused waters to flow down like rivers.
    17: Yet they sinned still more against him, rebelling against the Most High in the desert.
    18: They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved.
    19: They spoke against God, saying, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
    20: He smote the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed. Can he also give bread, or provide meat for his people?"
    21: Therefore, when the LORD heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob, his anger mounted against Israel;
    22: because they had no faith in God, and did not trust his saving power.
    23: Yet he commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heaven;
    24: and he rained down upon them manna to eat, and gave them the grain of heaven.
    25: Man ate of the bread of the angels; he sent them food in abundance.
    26: He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he led out the south wind;
    27: he rained flesh upon them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas;
    28: he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their habitations.
    29: And they ate and were well filled, for he gave them what they craved.
    30: But before they had sated their craving, while the food was still in their mouths,
    31: the anger of God rose against them and he slew the strongest of them, and laid low the picked men of Israel.
    32: In spite of all this they still sinned; despite his wonders they did not believe.
    33: So he made their days vanish like a breath, and their years in terror.
    34: When he slew them, they sought for him; they repented and sought God earnestly.
    35: They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God their redeemer.
    36: But they flattered him with their mouths; they lied to him with their tongues.
    37: Their heart was not steadfast toward him; they were not true to his covenant.
    38: Yet he, being compassionate, forgave their iniquity, and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often, and did not stir up all his wrath.
    39: He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and comes not again.
    40: How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert!
    41: They tested him again and again, and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
    42: They did not keep in mind his power, or the day when he redeemed them from the foe;
    43: when he wrought his signs in Egypt, and his miracles in the fields of Zo'an.
    44: He turned their rivers to blood, so that they could not drink of their streams.
    45: He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them.
    46: He gave their crops to the caterpillar, and the fruit of their labor to the locust.
    47: He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycamores with frost.
    48: He gave over their cattle to the hail, and their flocks to thunderbolts.
    49: He let loose on them his fierce anger, wrath, indignation, and distress, a company of destroying angels.
    50: He made a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death, but gave their lives over to the plague.
    51: He smote all the first-born in Egypt, the first issue of their strength in the tents of Ham.
    52: Then he led forth his people like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
    53: He led them in safety, so that they were not afraid; but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
    54: And he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won.
    55: He drove out nations before them; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.
    56: Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God, and did not observe his testimonies,
    57: but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow.
    58: For they provoked him to anger with their high places; they moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
    59: When God heard, he was full of wrath, and he utterly rejected Israel.
    60: He forsook his dwelling at Shiloh, the tent where he dwelt among men,
    61: and delivered his power to captivity, his glory to the hand of the foe.
    62: He gave his people over to the sword, and vented his wrath on his heritage.
    63: Fire devoured their young men, and their maidens had no marriage song.
    64: Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation.
    65: Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, like a strong man shouting because of wine.
    66: And he put his adversaries to rout; he put them to everlasting shame.
    67: He rejected the tent of Joseph, he did not choose the tribe of E'phraim;
    68: but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves.
    69: He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth, which he has founded for ever.
    70: He chose David his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds;
    71: from tending the ewes that had young he brought him to be the shepherd of Jacob his people, of Israel his inheritance.
    72: With upright heart he tended them, and guided them with skilful hand.

  Chapter 79.

    1: O God, the heathen have come into thy inheritance; they have defiled thy holy temple; they have laid Jerusalem in ruins.
    2: They have given the bodies of thy servants to the birds of the air for food, the flesh of thy saints to the beasts of the earth.
    3: They have poured out their blood like water round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them.
    4: We have become a taunt to our neighbors, mocked and derided by those round about us.
    5: How long, O LORD? Wilt thou be angry for ever? Will thy jealous wrath burn like fire?
    6: Pour out thy anger on the nations that do not know thee, and on the kingdoms that do not call on thy name!
    7: For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his habitation.
    8: Do not remember against us the iniquities of our forefathers; let thy compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low.
    9: Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name; deliver us, and forgive our sins, for thy name's sake!
    10: Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of thy servants be known among the nations before our eyes!
    11: Let the groans of the prisoners come before thee; according to thy great power preserve those doomed to die!
    12: Return sevenfold into the bosom of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted thee, O Lord!
    13: Then we thy people, the flock of thy pasture, will give thanks to thee for ever; from generation to generation we will recount thy praise.

  Chapter 80.

    1: Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou who leadest Joseph like a flock! Thou who art enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth
    2: before E'phraim and Benjamin and Manas'seh! Stir up thy might, and come to save us!
    3: Restore us, O God; let thy face shine, that we may be saved!
    4: O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry with thy people's prayers?
    5: Thou hast fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink in full measure.
    6: Thou dost make us the scorn of our neighbors; and our enemies laugh among themselves.
    7: Restore us, O God of hosts; let thy face shine, that we may be saved!
    8: Thou didst bring a vine out of Egypt; thou didst drive out the nations and plant it.
    9: Thou didst clear the ground for it; it took deep root and filled the land.
    10: The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches;
    11: it sent out its branches to the sea, and its shoots to the River.
    12: Why then hast thou broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit?
    13: The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it.
    14: Turn again, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine,
    15: the stock which thy right hand planted.
    16: They have burned it with fire, they have cut it down; may they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance!
    17: But let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, the son of man whom thou hast made strong for thyself!
    18: Then we will never turn back from thee; give us life, and we will call on thy name!
    19: Restore us, O LORD God of hosts! let thy face shine, that we may be saved!

End of day 163.