Day 139:

Reading Job, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Then Bildad the Shuhite answered:
    2: "Dominion and fear are with God; he makes peace in his high heaven.
    3: Is there any number to his armies? Upon whom does his light not arise?
    4: How then can man be righteous before God? How can he who is born of woman be clean?
    5: Behold, even the moon is not bright and the stars are not clean in his sight;
    6: how much less man, who is a maggot, and the son of man, who is a worm!"

  Chapter 26.

    1: Then Job answered:
    2: "How you have helped him who has no power! How you have saved the arm that has no strength!
    3: How you have counseled him who has no wisdom, and plentifully declared sound knowledge!
    4: With whose help have you uttered words, and whose spirit has come forth from you?
    5: The shades below tremble, the waters and their inhabitants.
    6: Sheol is naked before God, and Abaddon has no covering.
    7: He stretches out the north over the void, and hangs the earth upon nothing.
    8: He binds up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not rent under them.
    9: He covers the face of the moon, and spreads over it his cloud.
    10: He has described a circle upon the face of the waters at the boundary between light and darkness.
    11: The pillars of heaven tremble, and are astounded at his rebuke.
    12: By his power he stilled the sea; by his understanding he smote Rahab.
    13: By his wind the heavens were made fair; his hand pierced the fleeing serpent.
    14: Lo, these are but the outskirts of his ways; and how small a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?"

  Chapter 27.

    1: And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
    2: "As God lives, who has taken away my right, and the Almighty, who has made my soul bitter;
    3: as long as my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils;
    4: my lips will not speak falsehood, and my tongue will not utter deceit.
    5: Far be it from me to say that you are right; till I die I will not put away my integrity from me.
    6: I hold fast my righteousness, and will not let it go; my heart does not reproach me for any of my days.
    7: "Let my enemy be as the wicked, and let him that rises up against me be as the unrighteous.
    8: For what is the hope of the godless when God cuts him off, when God takes away his life?
    9: Will God hear his cry, when trouble comes upon him?
    10: Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call upon God at all times?
    11: I will teach you concerning the hand of God; what is with the Almighty I will not conceal.
    12: Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain?
    13: "This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage which oppressors receive from the Almighty:
    14: If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword; and his offspring have not enough to eat.
    15: Those who survive him the pestilence buries, and their widows make no lamentation.
    16: Though he heap up silver like dust, and pile up clothing like clay;
    17: he may pile it up, but the just will wear it, and the innocent will divide the silver.
    18: The house which he builds is like a spider's web, like a booth which a watchman makes.
    19: He goes to bed rich, but will do so no more; he opens his eyes, and his wealth is gone.
    20: Terrors overtake him like a flood; in the night a whirlwind carries him off.
    21: The east wind lifts him up and he is gone; it sweeps him out of his place.
    22: It hurls at him without pity; he flees from its power in headlong flight.
    23: It claps its hands at him, and hisses at him from its place.

  Chapter 28.

    1: "Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold which they refine.
    2: Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the ore.
    3: Men put an end to darkness, and search out to the farthest bound the ore in gloom and deep darkness.
    4: They open shafts in a valley away from where men live; they are forgotten by travelers, they hang afar from men, they swing to and fro.
    5: As for the earth, out of it comes bread; but underneath it is turned up as by fire.
    6: Its stones are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold.
    7: "That path no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen it.
    8: The proud beasts have not trodden it; the lion has not passed over it.
    9: "Man puts his hand to the flinty rock, and overturns mountains by the roots.
    10: He cuts out channels in the rocks, and his eye sees every precious thing.
    11: He binds up the streams so that they do not trickle, and the thing that is hid he brings forth to light.
    12: "But where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding?
    13: Man does not know the way to it, and it is not found in the land of the living.
    14: The deep says, `It is not in me,' and the sea says, `It is not with me.'
    15: It cannot be gotten for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price.
    16: It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir, in precious onyx or sapphire.
    17: Gold and glass cannot equal it, nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.
    18: No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal; the price of wisdom is above pearls.
    19: The topaz of Ethiopia cannot compare with it, nor can it be valued in pure gold.
    20: "Whence then comes wisdom? And where is the place of understanding?
    21: It is hid from the eyes of all living, and concealed from the birds of the air.
    22: Abaddon and Death say, `We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.'
    23: "God understands the way to it, and he knows its place.
    24: For he looks to the ends of the earth, and sees everything under the heavens.
    25: When he gave to the wind its weight, and meted out the waters by measure;
    26: when he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder;
    27: then he saw it and declared it; he established it, and searched it out.
    28: And he said to man, `Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.'"

End of day 139.