Day 203:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Whoever touches pitch will be defiled, and whoever associates with a proud man will become like him.
    2: Do not lift a weight beyond your strength, nor associate with a man mightier and richer than you. How can the clay pot associate with the iron kettle? The pot will strike against it, and will itself be broken.
    3: A rich man does wrong, and he even adds reproaches; a poor man suffers wrong, and he must add apologies.
    4: A rich man will exploit you if you can be of use to him, but if you are in need he will forsake you.
    5: If you own something, he will live with you; he will drain your resources and he will not care.
    6: When he needs you he will deceive you, he will smile at you and give you hope. He will speak to you kindly and say, "What do you need?"
    7: He will shame you with his foods, until he has drained you two or three times; and finally he will deride you. Should he see you afterwards, he will forsake you, and shake his head at you.
    8: Take care not to be led astray, and not to be humiliated in your feasting.
    9: When a powerful man invites you, be reserved; and he will invite you the more often.
    10: Do not push forward, lest you be repulsed; and do not remain at a distance, lest you be forgotten.
    11: Do not try to treat him as an equal, nor trust his abundance of words; for he will test you through much talk, and while he smiles he will be examining you.
    12: Cruel is he who does not keep words to himself; he will not hesitate to injure or to imprison.
    13: Keep words to yourself and be very watchful, for you are walking about with your own downfall.
    14: Every creature loves its like, and every person his neighbor;
    15: all living beings associate by species, and a man clings to one like himself.
    16: What fellowship has a wolf with a lamb? No more has a sinner with a godly man.
    17: What peace is there between a hyena and a dog? And what peace between a rich man and a poor man?
    18: Wild asses in the wilderness are the prey of lions; likewise the poor are pastures for the rich.
    19: Humility is an abomination to a proud man; likewise a poor man is an abomination to a rich one.
    20: When a rich man totters, he is steadied by friends, but when a humble man falls, he is even pushed away by friends.
    21: If a rich man slips, his helpers are many; he speaks unseemly words, and they justify him. If a humble man slips, they even reproach him; he speaks sensibly, and receives no attention.
    22: When the rich man speaks all are silent, and they extol to the clouds what he says. When the poor man speaks they say, "Who is this fellow?" And should he stumble, they even push him down.
    23: Riches are good if they are free from sin, and poverty is evil in the opinion of the ungodly.
    24: A man's heart changes his countenance, either for good or for evil.
    25: The mark of a happy heart is a cheerful face, but to devise proverbs requires painful thinking.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Blessed is the man who does not blunder with his lips and need not suffer grief for sin.
    2: Blessed is he whose heart does not condemn him, and who has not given up his hope.
    3: Riches are not seemly for a stingy man; and of what use is property to an envious man?
    4: Whoever accumulates by depriving himself, accumulates for others; and others will live in luxury on his goods.
    5: If a man is mean to himself, to whom will he be generous? He will not enjoy his own riches.
    6: No one is meaner than the man who is grudging to himself, and this is the retribution for his baseness;
    7: even if he does good, he does it unintentionally, and betrays his baseness in the end.
    8: Evil is the man with a grudging eye; he averts his face and disregards people.
    9: A greedy man's eye is not satisfied with a portion, and mean injustice withers the soul.
    10: A stingy man's eye begrudges bread, and it is lacking at his table.
    11: My son, treat yourself well, according to your means, and present worthy offerings to the Lord.
    12: Remember that death will not delay, and the decree of Hades has not been shown to you.
    13: Do good to a friend before you die, and reach out and give to him as much as you can.
    14: Do not deprive yourself of a happy day; let not your share of desired good pass by you.
    15: Will you not leave the fruit of your labors to another, and what you acquired by toil to be divided by lot?
    16: Give, and take, and beguile yourself, because in Hades one cannot look for luxury.
    17: All living beings become old like a garment, for the decree from of old is, "You must surely die!"
    18: Like flourishing leaves on a spreading tree which sheds some and puts forth others, so are the generations of flesh and blood: one dies and another is born.
    19: Every product decays and ceases to exist, and the man who made it will pass away with it.
    20: Blessed is the man who meditates on wisdom and who reasons intelligently.
    21: He who reflects in his mind on her ways will also ponder her secrets.
    22: Pursue wisdom like a hunter, and lie in wait on her paths.
    23: He who peers through her windows will also listen at her doors;
    24: he who encamps near her house will also fasten his tent peg to her walls;
    25: he will pitch his tent near her, and will lodge in an excellent lodging place;
    26: he will place his children under her shelter, and will camp under her boughs;
    27: he will be sheltered by her from the heat, and will dwell in the midst of her glory.

  Chapter 15.

    1: The man who fears the Lord will do this, and he who holds to the law will obtain wisdom.
    2: She will come to meet him like a mother, and like the wife of his youth she will welcome him.
    3: She will feed him with the bread of understanding, and give him the water of wisdom to drink.
    4: He will lean on her and will not fall, and he will rely on her and will not be put to shame.
    5: She will exalt him above his neighbors, and will open his mouth in the midst of the assembly.
    6: He will find gladness and a crown of rejoicing, and will acquire an everlasting name.
    7: Foolish men will not obtain her, and sinful men will not see her.
    8: She is far from men of pride, and liars will never think of her.
    9: A hymn of praise is not fitting on the lips of a sinner, for it has not been sent from the Lord.
    10: For a hymn of praise should be uttered in wisdom, and the Lord will prosper it.
    11: Do not say, "Because of the Lord I left the right way"; for he will not do what he hates.
    12: Do not say, "It was he who led me astray"; for he had no need of a sinful man.
    13: The Lord hates all abominations, and they are not loved by those who fear him.
    14: It was he who created man in the beginning, and he left him in the power of his own inclination.
    15: If you will, you can keep the commandments, and to act faithfully is a matter of your own choice.
    16: He has placed before you fire and water: stretch out your hand for whichever you wish.
    17: Before a man are life and death, and whichever he chooses will be given to him.
    18: For great is the wisdom of the Lord; he is mighty in power and sees everything;
    19: his eyes are on those who fear him, and he knows every deed of man.
    20: He has not commanded any one to be ungodly, and he has not given any one permission to sin.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Do not desire a multitude of useless children, nor rejoice in ungodly sons.
    2: If they multiply , do not rejoice in them, unless the fear of the Lord is in them.
    3: Do not trust in their survival, and do not rely on their multitude; for one is better than a thousand, and to die childless is better than to have ungodly children.
    4: For through one man of understanding a city will be filled with people, but through a tribe of lawless men it will be made desolate.
    5: Many such things my eye has seen, and my ear has heard things more striking than these.
    6: In an assembly of sinners a fire will be kindled, and in a disobedient nation wrath was kindled.
    7: He was not propitiated for the ancient giants who revolted in their might.
    8: He did not spare the neighbors of Lot, whom he loathed on account of their insolence.
    9: He showed no pity for a nation devoted to destruction, for those destroyed in their sins;
    10: nor for the six hundred thousand men on foot, who rebelliously assembled in their stubbornness.
    11: Even if there is only one stiff-necked person, it will be a wonder if he remains unpunished. For mercy and wrath are with the Lord; he is mighty to forgive, and he pours out wrath.
    12: As great as his mercy, so great is also his reproof; he judges a man according to his deeds.
    13: The sinner will not escape with his plunder, and the patience of the godly will not be frustrated.
    14: He will make room for every act of mercy; every one will receive in accordance with his deeds.
    15: Do not say, "I shall be hidden from the Lord, and who from on high will remember me? Among so many people I shall not be known, for what is my soul in the boundless creation?
    16: Behold, heaven and the highest heaven, the abyss and the earth, will tremble at his visitation.
    17: The mountains also and the foundations of the earth shake with trembling when he looks upon them.
    18: And no mind will reflect on this. Who will ponder his ways?
    19: Like a tempest which no man can see, so most of his works are concealed.
    20: Who will announce his acts of justice? Or who will await them? For the covenant is far off."
    21: This is what one devoid of understanding thinks; a senseless and misguided man thinks foolishly.
    22: Listen to me, my son, and acquire knowledge, and pay close attention to my words.
    23: I will impart instruction by weight, and declare knowledge accurately.
    24: The works of the Lord have existed from the beginning by his creation, and when he made them, he determined their divisions.
    25: He arranged his works in an eternal order, and their dominion for all generations; they neither hunger nor grow weary, and they do not cease from their labors.
    26: They do not crowd one another aside, and they will never disobey his word.
    27: After this the Lord looked upon the earth, and filled it with his good things;
    28: with all kinds of living beings he covered its surface, and to it they return.

End of day 203.