Day 318:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sos'thenes,
    2: To the church of God which is at Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:
    3: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
    4: I give thanks to God always for you because of the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus,
    5: that in every way you were enriched in him with all speech and all knowledge --
    6: even as the testimony to Christ was confirmed among you --
    7: so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ;
    8: who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
    9: God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
    10: I appeal to you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no dissensions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.
    11: For it has been reported to me by Chlo'e's people that there is quarreling among you, my brethren.
    12: What I mean is that each one of you says, "I belong to Paul," or "I belong to Apol'los," or "I belong to Cephas," or "I belong to Christ."
    13: Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
    14: I am thankful that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Ga'ius;
    15: lest any one should say that you were baptized in my name.
    16: (I did baptize also the household of Steph'anas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized any one else.)
    17: For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
    18: For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
    19: For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will thwart."
    20: Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
    21: For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe.
    22: For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
    23: but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles,
    24: but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
    25: For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
    26: For consider your call, brethren; not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth;
    27: but God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise, God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong,
    28: God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are,
    29: so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.
    30: He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom God made our wisdom, our righteousness and sanctification and redemption;
    31: therefore, as it is written, "Let him who boasts, boast of the Lord."

  Chapter 2.

    1: When I came to you, brethren, I did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God in lofty words or wisdom.
    2: For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
    3: And I was with you in weakness and in much fear and trembling;
    4: and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
    5: that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
    6: Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to pass away.
    7: But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glorification.
    8: None of the rulers of this age understood this; for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
    9: But, as it is written, "What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man conceived, what God has prepared for those who love him,"
    10: God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
    11: For what person knows a man's thoughts except the spirit of the man which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.
    12: Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is from God, that we might understand the gifts bestowed on us by God.
    13: And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who possess the Spirit.
    14: The unspiritual man does not receive the gifts of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
    15: The spiritual man judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.
    16: "For who has known the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?" But we have the mind of Christ.

  Chapter 3.

    1: But I, brethren, could not address you as spiritual men, but as men of the flesh, as babes in Christ.
    2: I fed you with milk, not solid food; for you were not ready for it; and even yet you are not ready,
    3: for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh, and behaving like ordinary men?
    4: For when one says, "I belong to Paul," and another, "I belong to Apol'los," are you not merely men?
    5: What then is Apol'los? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each.
    6: I planted, Apol'los watered, but God gave the growth.
    7: So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.
    8: He who plants and he who waters are equal, and each shall receive his wages according to his labor.
    9: For we are God's fellow workers; you are God's field, God's building.
    10: According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and another man is building upon it. Let each man take care how he builds upon it.
    11: For no other foundation can any one lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
    12: Now if any one builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw --
    13: each man's work will become manifest; for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed with fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done.
    14: If the work which any man has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.
    15: If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.
    16: Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?
    17: If any one destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and that temple you are.
    18: Let no one deceive himself. If any one among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.
    19: For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, "He catches the wise in their craftiness,"
    20: and again, "The Lord knows that the thoughts of the wise are futile."
    21: So let no one boast of men. For all things are yours,
    22: whether Paul or Apol'los or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future, all are yours;
    23: and you are Christ's; and Christ is God's.

  Chapter 4.

    1: This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
    2: Moreover it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy.
    3: But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. I do not even judge myself.
    4: I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.
    5: Therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then every man will receive his commendation from God.
    6: I have applied all this to myself and Apol'los for your benefit, brethren, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another.
    7: For who sees anything different in you? What have you that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if it were not a gift?
    8: Already you are filled! Already you have become rich! Without us you have become kings! And would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you!
    9: For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death; because we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels and to men.
    10: We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute.
    11: To the present hour we hunger and thirst, we are ill-clad and buffeted and homeless,
    12: and we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;
    13: when slandered, we try to conciliate; we have become, and are now, as the refuse of the world, the offscouring of all things.
    14: I do not write this to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
    15: For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
    16: I urge you, then, be imitators of me.
    17: Therefore I sent to you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, to remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach them everywhere in every church.
    18: Some are arrogant, as though I were not coming to you.
    19: But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people but their power.
    20: For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.
    21: What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love in a spirit of gentleness?

End of day 318.