Day 11:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: After two whole years, Pharaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile,
    2: and behold, there came up out of the Nile seven cows sleek and fat, and they fed in the reed grass.
    3: And behold, seven other cows, gaunt and thin, came up out of the Nile after them, and stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile.
    4: And the gaunt and thin cows ate up the seven sleek and fat cows. And Pharaoh awoke.
    5: And he fell asleep and dreamed a second time; and behold, seven ears of grain, plump and good, were growing on one stalk.
    6: And behold, after them sprouted seven ears, thin and blighted by the east wind.
    7: And the thin ears swallowed up the seven plump and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream.
    8: So in the morning his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men; and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none who could interpret it to Pharaoh.
    9: Then the chief butler said to Pharaoh, "I remember my faults today.
    10: When Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and put me and the chief baker in custody in the house of the captain of the guard,
    11: we dreamed on the same night, he and I, each having a dream with its own meaning.
    12: A young Hebrew was there with us, a servant of the captain of the guard; and when we told him, he interpreted our dreams to us, giving an interpretation to each man according to his dream.
    13: And as he interpreted to us, so it came to pass; I was restored to my office, and the baker was hanged."
    14: Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon; and when he had shaved himself and changed his clothes, he came in before Pharaoh.
    15: And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I have had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it; and I have heard it said of you that when you hear a dream you can interpret it."
    16: Joseph answered Pharaoh, "It is not in me; God will give Pharaoh a favorable answer."
    17: Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Behold, in my dream I was standing on the banks of the Nile;
    18: and seven cows, fat and sleek, came up out of the Nile and fed in the reed grass;
    19: and seven other cows came up after them, poor and very gaunt and thin, such as I had never seen in all the land of Egypt.
    20: And the thin and gaunt cows ate up the first seven fat cows,
    21: but when they had eaten them no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were still as gaunt as at the beginning. Then I awoke.
    22: I also saw in my dream seven ears growing on one stalk, full and good;
    23: and seven ears, withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprouted after them,
    24: and the thin ears swallowed up the seven good ears. And I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me."
    25: Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, "The dream of Pharaoh is one; God has revealed to Pharaoh what he is about to do.
    26: The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years; the dream is one.
    27: The seven lean and gaunt cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty ears blighted by the east wind are also seven years of famine.
    28: It is as I told Pharaoh, God has shown to Pharaoh what he is about to do.
    29: There will come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt,
    30: but after them there will arise seven years of famine, and all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt; the famine will consume the land,
    31: and the plenty will be unknown in the land by reason of that famine which will follow, for it will be very grievous.
    32: And the doubling of Pharaoh's dream means that the thing is fixed by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.
    33: Now therefore let Pharaoh select a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.
    34: Let Pharaoh proceed to appoint overseers over the land, and take the fifth part of the produce of the land of Egypt during the seven plenteous years.
    35: And let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming, and lay up grain under the authority of Pharaoh for food in the cities, and let them keep it.
    36: That food shall be a reserve for the land against the seven years of famine which are to befall the land of Egypt, so that the land may not perish through the famine."
    37: This proposal seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his servants.
    38: And Pharaoh said to his servants, "Can we find such a man as this, in whom is the Spirit of God?"
    39: So Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Since God has shown you all this, there is none so discreet and wise as you are;
    40: you shall be over my house, and all my people shall order themselves as you command; only as regards the throne will I be greater than you."
    41: And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Behold, I have set you over all the land of Egypt."
    42: Then Pharaoh took his signet ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in garments of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck;
    43: and he made him to ride in his second chariot; and they cried before him, "Bow the knee!" Thus he set him over all the land of Egypt.
    44: Moreover Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no man shall lift up hand or foot in all the land of Egypt."
    45: And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaph'enath-pane'ah; and he gave him in marriage As'enath, the daughter of Poti'phera priest of On. So Joseph went out over the land of Egypt.
    46: Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went through all the land of Egypt.
    47: During the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth abundantly,
    48: and he gathered up all the food of the seven years when there was plenty in the land of Egypt, and stored up food in the cities; he stored up in every city the food from the fields around it.
    49: And Joseph stored up grain in great abundance, like the sand of the sea, until he ceased to measure it, for it could not be measured.
    50: Before the year of famine came, Joseph had two sons, whom As'enath, the daughter of Poti'phera priest of On, bore to him.
    51: Joseph called the name of the first-born Manas'seh, "For," he said, "God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house."
    52: The name of the second he called E'phraim, "For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction."
    53: The seven years of plenty that prevailed in the land of Egypt came to an end;
    54: and the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. There was famine in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
    55: When all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread; and Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, "Go to Joseph; what he says to you, do."
    56: So when the famine had spread over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold to the Egyptians, for the famine was severe in the land of Egypt.
    57: Moreover, all the earth came to Egypt to Joseph to buy grain, because the famine was severe over all the earth.

  Chapter 42.

    1: When Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he said to his sons, "Why do you look at one another?"
    2: And he said, "Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down and buy grain for us there, that we may live, and not die."
    3: So ten of Joseph's brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt.
    4: But Jacob did not send Benjamin, Joseph's brother, with his brothers, for he feared that harm might befall him.
    5: Thus the sons of Israel came to buy among the others who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
    6: Now Joseph was governor over the land; he it was who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came, and bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground.
    7: Joseph saw his brothers, and knew them, but he treated them like strangers and spoke roughly to them. "Where do you come from?" he said. They said, "From the land of Canaan, to buy food."
    8: Thus Joseph knew his brothers, but they did not know him.
    9: And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed of them; and he said to them, "You are spies, you have come to see the weakness of the land."
    10: They said to him, "No, my lord, but to buy food have your servants come.
    11: We are all sons of one man, we are honest men, your servants are not spies."
    12: He said to them, "No, it is the weakness of the land that you have come to see."
    13: And they said, "We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more."
    14: But Joseph said to them, "It is as I said to you, you are spies.
    15: By this you shall be tested: by the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here.
    16: Send one of you, and let him bring your brother, while you remain in prison, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you; or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies."
    17: And he put them all together in prison for three days.
    18: On the third day Joseph said to them, "Do this and you will live, for I fear God:
    19: if you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain confined in your prison, and let the rest go and carry grain for the famine of your households,
    20: and bring your youngest brother to me; so your words will be verified, and you shall not die." And they did so.
    21: Then they said to one another, "In truth we are guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul, when he besought us and we would not listen; therefore is this distress come upon us."
    22: And Reuben answered them, "Did I not tell you not to sin against the lad? But you would not listen. So now there comes a reckoning for his blood."
    23: They did not know that Joseph understood them, for there was an interpreter between them.
    24: Then he turned away from them and wept; and he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes.
    25: And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain, and to replace every man's money in his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey. This was done for them.
    26: Then they loaded their asses with their grain, and departed.
    27: And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender at the lodging place, he saw his money in the mouth of his sack;
    28: and he said to his brothers, "My money has been put back; here it is in the mouth of my sack!" At this their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, "What is this that God has done to us?"
    29: When they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan, they told him all that had befallen them, saying,
    30: "The man, the lord of the land, spoke roughly to us, and took us to be spies of the land.
    31: But we said to him, `We are honest men, we are not spies;
    32: we are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.'
    33: Then the man, the lord of the land, said to us, `By this I shall know that you are honest men: leave one of your brothers with me, and take grain for the famine of your households, and go your way.
    34: Bring your youngest brother to me; then I shall know that you are not spies but honest men, and I will deliver to you your brother, and you shall trade in the land.'"
    35: As they emptied their sacks, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack; and when they and their father saw their bundles of money, they were dismayed.
    36: And Jacob their father said to them, "You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and now you would take Benjamin; all this has come upon me."
    37: Then Reuben said to his father, "Slay my two sons if I do not bring him back to you; put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you."
    38: But he said, "My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he only is left. If harm should befall him on the journey that you are to make, you would bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol."

  Chapter 43.

    1: Now the famine was severe in the land.
    2: And when they had eaten the grain which they had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, "Go again, buy us a little food."
    3: But Judah said to him, "The man solemnly warned us, saying, `You shall not see my face, unless your brother is with you.'
    4: If you will send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food;
    5: but if you will not send him, we will not go down, for the man said to us, `You shall not see my face, unless your brother is with you.'"
    6: Israel said, "Why did you treat me so ill as to tell the man that you had another brother?"
    7: They replied, "The man questioned us carefully about ourselves and our kindred, saying, `Is your father still alive? Have you another brother?' What we told him was in answer to these questions; could we in any way know that he would say, `Bring your brother down'?"
    8: And Judah said to Israel his father, "Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones.
    9: I will be surety for him; of my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame for ever;
    10: for if we had not delayed, we would now have returned twice."
    11: Then their father Israel said to them, "If it must be so, then do this: take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry down to the man a present, a little balm and a little honey, gum, myrrh, pistachio nuts, and almonds.
    12: Take double the money with you; carry back with you the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks; perhaps it was an oversight.
    13: Take also your brother, and arise, go again to the man;
    14: may God Almighty grant you mercy before the man, that he may send back your other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved."
    15: So the men took the present, and they took double the money with them, and Benjamin; and they arose and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
    16: When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, "Bring the men into the house, and slaughter an animal and make ready, for the men are to dine with me at noon."
    17: The man did as Joseph bade him, and brought the men to Joseph's house.
    18: And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house, and they said, "It is because of the money, which was replaced in our sacks the first time, that we are brought in, so that he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us, to make slaves of us and seize our asses."
    19: So they went up to the steward of Joseph's house, and spoke with him at the door of the house,
    20: and said, "Oh, my lord, we came down the first time to buy food;
    21: and when we came to the lodging place we opened our sacks, and there was every man's money in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight; so we have brought it again with us,
    22: and we have brought other money down in our hand to buy food. We do not know who put our money in our sacks."
    23: He replied, "Rest assured, do not be afraid; your God and the God of your father must have put treasure in your sacks for you; I received your money." Then he brought Simeon out to them.
    24: And when the man had brought the men into Joseph's house, and given them water, and they had washed their feet, and when he had given their asses provender,
    25: they made ready the present for Joseph's coming at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there.
    26: When Joseph came home, they brought into the house to him the present which they had with them, and bowed down to him to the ground.
    27: And he inquired about their welfare, and said, "Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?"
    28: They said, "Your servant our father is well, he is still alive." And they bowed their heads and made obeisance.
    29: And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, "Is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me? God be gracious to you, my son!"
    30: Then Joseph made haste, for his heart yearned for his brother, and he sought a place to weep. And he entered his chamber and wept there.
    31: Then he washed his face and came out; and controlling himself he said, "Let food be served."
    32: They served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
    33: And they sat before him, the first-born according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth; and the men looked at one another in amazement.
    34: Portions were taken to them from Joseph's table, but Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. So they drank and were merry with him.

  Chapter 44.

    1: Then he commanded the steward of his house, "Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack,
    2: and put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, with his money for the grain." And he did as Joseph told him.
    3: As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their asses.
    4: When they had gone but a short distance from the city, Joseph said to his steward, "Up, follow after the men; and when you overtake them, say to them, `Why have you returned evil for good? Why have you stolen my silver cup?
    5: Is it not from this that my lord drinks, and by this that he divines? You have done wrong in so doing.'"
    6: When he overtook them, he spoke to them these words.
    7: They said to him, "Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants that they should do such a thing!
    8: Behold, the money which we found in the mouth of our sacks, we brought back to you from the land of Canaan; how then should we steal silver or gold from your lord's house?
    9: With whomever of your servants it be found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's slaves."
    10: He said, "Let it be as you say: he with whom it is found shall be my slave, and the rest of you shall be blameless."
    11: Then every man quickly lowered his sack to the ground, and every man opened his sack.
    12: And he searched, beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
    13: Then they rent their clothes, and every man loaded his ass, and they returned to the city.
    14: When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there; and they fell before him to the ground.
    15: Joseph said to them, "What deed is this that you have done? Do you not know that such a man as I can indeed divine?"
    16: And Judah said, "What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? God has found out the guilt of your servants; behold, we are my lord's slaves, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found."
    17: But he said, "Far be it from me that I should do so! Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my slave; but as for you, go up in peace to your father."
    18: Then Judah went up to him and said, "O my lord, let your servant, I pray you, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant; for you are like Pharaoh himself.
    19: My lord asked his servants, saying, `Have you a father, or a brother?'
    20: And we said to my lord, `We have a father, an old man, and a young brother, the child of his old age; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children; and his father loves him.'
    21: Then you said to your servants, `Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes upon him.'
    22: We said to my lord, `The lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.'
    23: Then you said to your servants, `Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall see my face no more.'
    24: When we went back to your servant my father we told him the words of my lord.
    25: And when our father said, `Go again, buy us a little food,'
    26: we said, `We cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down; for we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.'
    27: Then your servant my father said to us, `You know that my wife bore me two sons;
    28: one left me, and I said, Surely he has been torn to pieces; and I have never seen him since.
    29: If you take this one also from me, and harm befalls him, you will bring down my gray hairs in sorrow to Sheol.'
    30: Now therefore, when I come to your servant my father, and the lad is not with us, then, as his life is bound up in the lad's life,
    31: when he sees that the lad is not with us, he will die; and your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol.
    32: For your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, `If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame in the sight of my father all my life.'
    33: Now therefore, let your servant, I pray you, remain instead of the lad as a slave to my lord; and let the lad go back with his brothers.
    34: For how can I go back to my father if the lad is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would come upon my father."

End of day 11.