Day 23:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: Bez'alel made the ark of acacia wood; two cubits and a half was its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
    2: And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a molding of gold around it.
    3: And he cast for it four rings of gold for its four corners, two rings on its one side and two rings on its other side.
    4: And he made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold,
    5: and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark.
    6: And he made a mercy seat of pure gold; two cubits and a half was its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
    7: And he made two cherubim of hammered gold; on the two ends of the mercy seat he made them,
    8: one cherub on the one end, and one cherub on the other end; of one piece with the mercy seat he made the cherubim on its two ends.
    9: The cherubim spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy seat were the faces of the cherubim.
    10: He also made the table of acacia wood; two cubits was its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height;
    11: and he overlaid it with pure gold, and made a molding of gold around it.
    12: And he made around it a frame a handbreadth wide, and made a molding of gold around the frame.
    13: He cast for it four rings of gold, and fastened the rings to the four corners at its four legs.
    14: Close to the frame were the rings, as holders for the poles to carry the table.
    15: He made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table, and overlaid them with gold.
    16: And he made the vessels of pure gold which were to be upon the table, its plates and dishes for incense, and its bowls and flagons with which to pour libations.
    17: He also made the lampstand of pure gold. The base and the shaft of the lampstand were made of hammered work; its cups, its capitals, and its flowers were of one piece with it.
    18: And there were six branches going out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of one side of it and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it;
    19: three cups made like almonds, each with capital and flower, on one branch, and three cups made like almonds, each with capital and flower, on the other branch -- so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
    20: And on the lampstand itself were four cups made like almonds, with their capitals and flowers,
    21: and a capital of one piece with it under each pair of the six branches going out of it.
    22: Their capitals and their branches were of one piece with it; the whole of it was one piece of hammered work of pure gold.
    23: And he made its seven lamps and its snuffers and its trays of pure gold.
    24: He made it and all its utensils of a talent of pure gold.
    25: He made the altar of incense of acacia wood; its length was a cubit, and its breadth was a cubit; it was square, and two cubits was its height; its horns were of one piece with it.
    26: He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, and its sides round about, and its horns; and he made a molding of gold round about it,
    27: and made two rings of gold on it under its molding, on two opposite sides of it, as holders for the poles with which to carry it.
    28: And he made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
    29: He made the holy anointing oil also, and the pure fragrant incense, blended as by the perfumer.

  Chapter 38.

    1: He made the altar of burnt offering also of acacia wood; five cubits was its length, and five cubits its breadth; it was square, and three cubits was its height.
    2: He made horns for it on its four corners; its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze.
    3: And he made all the utensils of the altar, the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the firepans: all its utensils he made of bronze.
    4: And he made for the altar a grating, a network of bronze, under its ledge, extending halfway down.
    5: He cast four rings on the four corners of the bronze grating as holders for the poles;
    6: he made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with bronze.
    7: And he put the poles through the rings on the sides of the altar, to carry it with them; he made it hollow, with boards.
    8: And he made the laver of bronze and its base of bronze, from the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
    9: And he made the court; for the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits;
    10: their pillars were twenty and their bases twenty, of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
    11: And for the north side a hundred cubits, their pillars twenty, their bases twenty, of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
    12: And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
    13: And for the front to the east, fifty cubits.
    14: The hangings for one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three bases.
    15: And so for the other side; on this hand and that hand by the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three bases.
    16: All the hangings round about the court were of fine twined linen.
    17: And the bases for the pillars were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver; the overlaying of their capitals was also of silver, and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.
    18: And the screen for the gate of the court was embroidered with needlework in blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen; it was twenty cubits long and five cubits high in its breadth, corresponding to the hangings of the court.
    19: And their pillars were four; their four bases were of bronze, their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their fillets of silver.
    20: And all the pegs for the tabernacle and for the court round about were of bronze.
    21: This is the sum of the things for the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, as they were counted at the commandment of Moses, for the work of the Levites under the direction of Ith'amar the son of Aaron the priest.
    22: Bez'alel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses;
    23: and with him was Oho'liab the son of Ahis'amach, of the tribe of Dan, a craftsman and designer and embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen.
    24: All the gold that was used for the work, in all the construction of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary.
    25: And the silver from those of the congregation who were numbered was a hundred talents and a thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary:
    26: a beka a head (that is, half a shekel, by the shekel of the sanctuary), for every one who was numbered in the census, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred and three thousand, five hundred and fifty men.
    27: The hundred talents of silver were for casting the bases of the sanctuary, and the bases of the veil; a hundred bases for the hundred talents, a talent for a base.
    28: And of the thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their capitals and made fillets for them.
    29: And the bronze that was contributed was seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels;
    30: with it he made the bases for the door of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar and the bronze grating for it and all the utensils of the altar,
    31: the bases round about the court, and the bases of the gate of the court, all the pegs of the tabernacle, and all the pegs round about the court.

  Chapter 39.

    1: And of the blue and purple and scarlet stuff they made finely wrought garments, for ministering in the holy place; they made the holy garments for Aaron; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    2: And he made the ephod of gold, blue and purple and scarlet stuff, and fine twined linen.
    3: And gold leaf was hammered out and cut into threads to work into the blue and purple and the scarlet stuff, and into the fine twined linen, in skilled design.
    4: They made for the ephod shoulder-pieces, joined to it at its two edges.
    5: And the skilfully woven band upon it, to gird it on, was of the same materials and workmanship, of gold, blue and purple and scarlet stuff, and fine twined linen; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    6: The onyx stones were prepared, enclosed in settings of gold filigree and engraved like the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the sons of Israel.
    7: And he set them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, to be stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    8: He made the breastpiece, in skilled work, like the work of the ephod, of gold, blue and purple and scarlet stuff, and fine twined linen.
    9: It was square; the breastpiece was made double, a span its length and a span its breadth when doubled.
    10: And they set in it four rows of stones. A row of sardius, topaz, and carbuncle was the first row;
    11: and the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;
    12: and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
    13: and the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper; they were enclosed in settings of gold filigree.
    14: There were twelve stones with their names according to the names of the sons of Israel; they were like signets, each engraved with its name, for the twelve tribes.
    15: And they made on the breastpiece twisted chains like cords, of pure gold;
    16: and they made two settings of gold filigree and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two edges of the breastpiece;
    17: and they put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the edges of the breastpiece.
    18: Two ends of the two cords they had attached to the two settings of filigree; thus they attached it in front to the shoulder-pieces of the ephod.
    19: Then they made two rings of gold, and put them at the two ends of the breastpiece, on its inside edge next to the ephod.
    20: And they made two rings of gold, and attached them in front to the lower part of the two shoulder-pieces of the ephod, at its joining above the skilfully woven band of the ephod.
    21: And they bound the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that it should lie upon the skilfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastpiece should not come loose from the ephod; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    22: He also made the robe of the ephod woven all of blue;
    23: and the opening of the robe in it was like the opening in a garment, with a binding around the opening, that it might not be torn.
    24: On the skirts of the robe they made pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet stuff and fine twined linen.
    25: They also made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the skirts of the robe round about, between the pomegranates;
    26: a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate round about upon the skirts of the robe for ministering; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    27: They also made the coats, woven of fine linen, for Aaron and his sons,
    28: and the turban of fine linen, and the caps of fine linen, and the linen breeches of fine twined linen,
    29: and the girdle of fine twined linen and of blue and purple and scarlet stuff, embroidered with needlework; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    30: And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it an inscription, like the engraving of a signet, "Holy to the LORD."
    31: And they tied to it a lace of blue, to fasten it on the turban above; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    32: Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting was finished; and the people of Israel had done according to all that the LORD had commanded Moses; so had they done.
    33: And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its utensils, its hooks, its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;
    34: the covering of tanned rams' skins and goatskins, and the veil of the screen;
    35: the ark of the testimony with its poles and the mercy seat;
    36: the table with all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
    37: the lampstand of pure gold and its lamps with the lamps set and all its utensils, and the oil for the light;
    38: the golden altar, the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the door of the tent;
    39: the bronze altar, and its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the laver and its base;
    40: the hangings of the court, its pillars, and its bases, and the screen for the gate of the court, its cords, and its pegs; and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting;
    41: the finely worked garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons to serve as priests.
    42: According to all that the LORD had commanded Moses, so the people of Israel had done all the work.
    43: And Moses saw all the work, and behold, they had done it; as the LORD had commanded, so had they done it. And Moses blessed them.

  Chapter 40.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "On the first day of the first month you shall erect the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
    3: And you shall put in it the ark of the testimony, and you shall screen the ark with the veil.
    4: And you shall bring in the table, and set its arrangements in order; and you shall bring in the lampstand, and set up its lamps.
    5: And you shall put the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and set up the screen for the door of the tabernacle.
    6: You shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,
    7: and place the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it.
    8: And you shall set up the court round about, and hang up the screen for the gate of the court.
    9: Then you shall take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and consecrate it and all its furniture; and it shall become holy.
    10: You shall also anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and consecrate the altar; and the altar shall be most holy.
    11: You shall also anoint the laver and its base, and consecrate it.
    12: Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water,
    13: and put upon Aaron the holy garments, and you shall anoint him and consecrate him, that he may serve me as priest.
    14: You shall bring his sons also and put coats on them,
    15: and anoint them, as you anointed their father, that they may serve me as priests: and their anointing shall admit them to a perpetual priesthood throughout their generations."
    16: Thus did Moses; according to all that the LORD commanded him, so he did.
    17: And in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was erected.
    18: Moses erected the tabernacle; he laid its bases, and set up its frames, and put in its poles, and raised up its pillars;
    19: and he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent over it, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    20: And he took the testimony and put it into the ark, and put the poles on the ark, and set the mercy seat above on the ark;
    21: and he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    22: And he put the table in the tent of meeting, on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil,
    23: and set the bread in order on it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    24: And he put the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle,
    25: and set up the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    26: And he put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil,
    27: and burnt fragrant incense upon it; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    28: And he put in place the screen for the door of the tabernacle.
    29: And he set the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the cereal offering; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
    30: And he set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it for washing,
    31: with which Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet;
    32: when they went into the tent of meeting, and when they approached the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses.
    33: And he erected the court round the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work.
    34: Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
    35: And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting, because the cloud abode upon it, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
    36: Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would go onward;
    37: but if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not go onward till the day that it was taken up.
    38: For throughout all their journeys the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel.

End of day 23.