Day 329:

Reading Ephesians, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
    2: And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
    3: But fornication and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is fitting among saints.
    4: Let there be no filthiness, nor silly talk, nor levity, which are not fitting; but instead let there be thanksgiving.
    5: Be sure of this, that no fornicator or impure man, or one who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
    6: Let no one deceive you with empty words, for it is because of these things that the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
    7: Therefore do not associate with them,
    8: for once you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord; walk as children of light
    9: (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),
    10: and try to learn what is pleasing to the Lord.
    11: Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them.
    12: For it is a shame even to speak of the things that they do in secret;
    13: but when anything is exposed by the light it becomes visible, for anything that becomes visible is light.
    14: Therefore it is said, "Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give you light."
    15: Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise men but as wise,
    16: making the most of the time, because the days are evil.
    17: Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
    18: And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery; but be filled with the Spirit,
    19: addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with all your heart,
    20: always and for everything giving thanks in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God the Father.
    21: Be subject to one another out of reverence for Christ.
    22: Wives, be subject to your husbands, as to the Lord.
    23: For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.
    24: As the church is subject to Christ, so let wives also be subject in everything to their husbands.
    25: Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,
    26: that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,
    27: that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish.
    28: Even so husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
    29: For no man ever hates his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, as Christ does the church,
    30: because we are members of his body.
    31: "For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh."
    32: This mystery is a profound one, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church;
    33: however, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
    2: "Honor your father and mother" (this is the first commandment with a promise),
    3: "that it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth."
    4: Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
    5: Slaves, be obedient to those who are your earthly masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of heart, as to Christ;
    6: not in the way of eye-service, as men-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
    7: rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to men,
    8: knowing that whatever good any one does, he will receive the same again from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free.
    9: Masters, do the same to them, and forbear threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.
    10: Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.
    11: Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
    12: For we are not contending against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world rulers of this present darkness, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.
    13: Therefore take the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
    14: Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
    15: and having shod your feet with the equipment of the gospel of peace;
    16: besides all these, taking the shield of faith, with which you can quench all the flaming darts of the evil one.
    17: And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.
    18: Pray at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,
    19: and also for me, that utterance may be given me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel,
    20: for which I am an ambassador in chains; that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.
    21: Now that you also may know how I am and what I am doing, Tych'icus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything.
    22: I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts.
    23: Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
    24: Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love undying.

End of day 329.