Day 26:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: On the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel;
    2: and he said to Aaron, "Take a bull calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish, and offer them before the LORD.
    3: And say to the people of Israel, `Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering,
    4: and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD, and a cereal offering mixed with oil; for today the LORD will appear to you.'"
    5: And they brought what Moses commanded before the tent of meeting; and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.
    6: And Moses said, "This is the thing which the LORD commanded you to do; and the glory of the LORD will appear to you."
    7: Then Moses said to Aaron, "Draw near to the altar, and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself and for the people; and bring the offering of the people, and make atonement for them; as the LORD has commanded."
    8: So Aaron drew near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
    9: And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar;
    10: but the fat and the kidneys and the appendage of the liver from the sin offering he burned upon the altar, as the LORD commanded Moses.
    11: The flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
    12: And he killed the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, and he threw it on the altar round about.
    13: And they delivered the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head; and he burned them upon the altar.
    14: And he washed the entrails and the legs, and burned them with the burnt offering on the altar.
    15: Then he presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for sin, like the first sin offering.
    16: And he presented the burnt offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
    17: And he presented the cereal offering, and filled his hand from it, and burned it upon the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
    18: He killed the ox also and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings for the people; and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he threw upon the altar round about,
    19: and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the entrails, and the kidneys, and the appendage of the liver;
    20: and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burned the fat upon the altar,
    21: but the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.
    22: Then Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings.
    23: And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting; and when they came out they blessed the people, and the glory of the LORD appeared to all the people.
    24: And fire came forth from before the LORD and consumed the burnt offering and the fat upon the altar; and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now Nadab and Abi'hu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered unholy fire before the LORD, such as he had not commanded them.
    2: And fire came forth from the presence of the LORD and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.
    3: Then Moses said to Aaron, "This is what the LORD has said, `I will show myself holy among those who are near me, and before all the people I will be glorified.'" And Aaron held his peace.
    4: And Moses called Mish'a-el and Elza'phan, the sons of Uz'ziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, "Draw near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp."
    5: So they drew near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
    6: And Moses said to Aaron and to Elea'zar and Ith'amar, his sons, "Do not let the hair of your heads hang loose, and do not rend your clothes, lest you die, and lest wrath come upon all the congregation; but your brethren, the whole house of Israel, may bewail the burning which the LORD has kindled.
    7: And do not go out from the door of the tent of meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you." And they did according to the word of Moses.
    8: And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying,
    9: "Drink no wine nor strong drink, you nor your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die; it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations.
    10: You are to distinguish between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
    11: and you are to teach the people of Israel all the statutes which the LORD has spoken to them by Moses."
    12: And Moses said to Aaron and to Elea'zar and Ith'amar, his sons who were left, "Take the cereal offering that remains of the offerings by fire to the LORD, and eat it unleavened beside the altar, for it is most holy;
    13: you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your due and your sons' due, from the offerings by fire to the LORD; for so I am commanded.
    14: But the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered you shall eat in any clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you; for they are given as your due and your sons' due, from the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the people of Israel.
    15: The thigh that is offered and the breast that is waved they shall bring with the offerings by fire of the fat, to wave for a wave offering before the LORD, and it shall be yours, and your sons' with you, as a due for ever; as the LORD has commanded."
    16: Now Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, and behold, it was burned! And he was angry with Elea'zar and Ith'amar, the sons of Aaron who were left, saying,
    17: "Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, since it is a thing most holy and has been given to you that you may bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD?
    18: Behold, its blood was not brought into the inner part of the sanctuary. You certainly ought to have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded."
    19: And Aaron said to Moses, "Behold, today they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD; and yet such things as these have befallen me! If I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been acceptable in the sight of the LORD?"
    20: And when Moses heard that, he was content.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, These are the living things which you may eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.
    3: Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed and chews the cud, among the animals, you may eat.
    4: Nevertheless among those that chew the cud or part the hoof, you shall not eat these: The camel, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
    5: And the rock badger, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
    6: And the hare, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
    7: And the swine, because it parts the hoof and is cloven-footed but does not chew the cud, is unclean to you.
    8: Of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you.
    9: "These you may eat, of all that are in the waters. Everything in the waters that has fins and scales, whether in the seas or in the rivers, you may eat.
    10: But anything in the seas or the rivers that has not fins and scales, of the swarming creatures in the waters and of the living creatures that are in the waters, is an abomination to you.
    11: They shall remain an abomination to you; of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall have in abomination.
    12: Everything in the waters that has not fins and scales is an abomination to you.
    13: "And these you shall have in abomination among the birds, they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, the vulture, the osprey,
    14: the kite, the falcon according to its kind,
    15: every raven according to its kind,
    16: the ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, the hawk according to its kind,
    17: the owl, the cormorant, the ibis,
    18: the water hen, the pelican, the carrion vulture,
    19: the stork, the heron according to its kind, the hoopoe, and the bat.
    20: "All winged insects that go upon all fours are an abomination to you.
    21: Yet among the winged insects that go on all fours you may eat those which have legs above their feet, with which to leap on the earth.
    22: Of them you may eat: the locust according to its kind, the bald locust according to its kind, the cricket according to its kind, and the grasshopper according to its kind.
    23: But all other winged insects which have four feet are an abomination to you.
    24: "And by these you shall become unclean; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
    25: and whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
    26: Every animal which parts the hoof but is not cloven-footed or does not chew the cud is unclean to you; every one who touches them shall be unclean.
    27: And all that go on their paws, among the animals that go on all fours, are unclean to you; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
    28: and he who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you.
    29: "And these are unclean to you among the swarming things that swarm upon the earth: the weasel, the mouse, the great lizard according to its kind,
    30: the gecko, the land crocodile, the lizard, the sand lizard, and the chameleon.
    31: These are unclean to you among all that swarm; whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening.
    32: And anything upon which any of them falls when they are dead shall be unclean, whether it is an article of wood or a garment or a skin or a sack, any vessel that is used for any purpose; it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it shall be clean.
    33: And if any of them falls into any earthen vessel, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it.
    34: Any food in it which may be eaten, upon which water may come, shall be unclean; and all drink which may be drunk from every such vessel shall be unclean.
    35: And everything upon which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether oven or stove, it shall be broken in pieces; they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
    36: Nevertheless a spring or a cistern holding water shall be clean; but whatever touches their carcass shall be unclean.
    37: And if any part of their carcass falls upon any seed for sowing that is to be sown, it is clean;
    38: but if water is put on the seed and any part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you.
    39: "And if any animal of which you may eat dies, he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
    40: and he who eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; he also who carries the carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
    41: "Every swarming thing that swarms upon the earth is an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
    42: Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, all the swarming things that swarm upon the earth, you shall not eat; for they are an abomination.
    43: You shall not make yourselves abominable with any swarming thing that swarms; and you shall not defile yourselves with them, lest you become unclean.
    44: For I am the LORD your God; consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls upon the earth.
    45: For I am the LORD who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God; you shall therefore be holy, for I am holy."
    46: This is the law pertaining to beast and bird and every living creature that moves through the waters and every creature that swarms upon the earth,
    47: to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean and between the living creature that may be eaten and the living creature that may not be eaten.

  Chapter 12.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, If a woman conceives, and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days; as at the time of her menstruation, she shall be unclean.
    3: And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
    4: Then she shall continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her purifying; she shall not touch any hallowed thing, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying are completed.
    5: But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her menstruation; and she shall continue in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days.
    6: "And when the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the door of the tent of meeting a lamb a year old for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon or a turtledove for a sin offering,
    7: and he shall offer it before the LORD, and make atonement for her; then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears a child, either male or female.
    8: And if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean."

End of day 26.