Day 4:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb.
    2: Now Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
    3: And he journeyed on from the Negeb as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai,
    4: to the place where he had made an altar at the first; and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.
    5: And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents,
    6: so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together; for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together,
    7: and there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle. At that time the Canaanites and the Per'izzites dwelt in the land.
    8: Then Abram said to Lot, "Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen; for we are kinsmen.
    9: Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left."
    10: And Lot lifted up his eyes, and saw that the Jordan valley was well watered everywhere like the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt, in the direction of Zo'ar; this was before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomor'rah.
    11: So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan valley, and Lot journeyed east; thus they separated from each other.
    12: Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, while Lot dwelt among the cities of the valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
    13: Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the LORD.
    14: The LORD said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, "Lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward;
    15: for all the land which you see I will give to you and to your descendants for ever.
    16: I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth; so that if one can count the dust of the earth, your descendants also can be counted.
    17: Arise, walk through the length and the breadth of the land, for I will give it to you."
    18: So Abram moved his tent, and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron; and there he built an altar to the LORD.

  Chapter 14.

    1: In the days of Am'raphel king of Shinar, Ar'ioch king of Ella'sar, Ched-or-lao'mer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goi'im,
    2: these kings made war with Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomor'rah, Shinab king of Admah, Sheme'ber king of Zeboi'im, and the king of Bela (that is, Zo'ar).
    3: And all these joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea).
    4: Twelve years they had served Ched-or-lao'mer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
    5: In the fourteenth year Ched-or-lao'mer and the kings who were with him came and subdued the Reph'aim in Ash'teroth-karna'im, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Sha'veh-kiriatha'im,
    6: and the Horites in their Mount Se'ir as far as El-paran on the border of the wilderness;
    7: then they turned back and came to Enmish'pat (that is, Kadesh), and subdued all the country of the Amal'ekites, and also the Amorites who dwelt in Haz'azon-ta'mar.
    8: Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomor'rah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboi'im, and the king of Bela (that is, Zo'ar) went out, and they joined battle in the Valley of Siddim
    9: with Ched-or-lao'mer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goi'im, Am'raphel king of Shinar, and Ar'ioch king of Ella'sar, four kings against five.
    10: Now the Valley of Siddim was full of bitumen pits; and as the kings of Sodom and Gomor'rah fled, some fell into them, and the rest fled to the mountain.
    11: So the enemy took all the goods of Sodom and Gomor'rah, and all their provisions, and went their way;
    12: they also took Lot, the son of Abram's brother, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.
    13: Then one who had escaped came, and told Abram the Hebrew, who was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and of Aner; these were allies of Abram.
    14: When Abram heard that his kinsman had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan.
    15: And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and routed them and pursued them to Hobah, north of Damascus.
    16: Then he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his kinsman Lot with his goods, and the women and the people.
    17: After his return from the defeat of Ched-or-lao'mer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King's Valley).
    18: And Mel-chiz'edek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was priest of God Most High.
    19: And he blessed him and said, "Blessed be Abram by God Most High, maker of heaven and earth;
    20: and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand!"
    21: And the king of Sodom said to Abram, "Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself."
    22: But Abram said to the king of Sodom, "I have sworn to the LORD God Most High, maker of heaven and earth,
    23: that I would not take a thread or a sandal-thong or anything that is yours, lest you should say, `I have made Abram rich.'
    24: I will take nothing but what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men who went with me; let Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre take their share."

  Chapter 15.

    1: After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision, "Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great."
    2: But Abram said, "O Lord GOD, what wilt thou give me, for I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Elie'zer of Damascus?"
    3: And Abram said, "Behold, thou hast given me no offspring; and a slave born in my house will be my heir."
    4: And behold, the word of the LORD came to him, "This man shall not be your heir; your own son shall be your heir."
    5: And he brought him outside and said, "Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able to number them." Then he said to him, "So shall your descendants be."
    6: And he believed the LORD; and he reckoned it to him as righteousness.
    7: And he said to him, "I am the LORD who brought you from Ur of the Chalde'ans, to give you this land to possess."
    8: But he said, "O Lord GOD, how am I to know that I shall possess it?"
    9: He said to him, "Bring me a heifer three years old, a she-goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon."
    10: And he brought him all these, cut them in two, and laid each half over against the other; but he did not cut the birds in two.
    11: And when birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away.
    12: As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram; and lo, a dread and great darkness fell upon him.
    13: Then the LORD said to Abram, "Know of a surety that your descendants will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be slaves there, and they will be oppressed for four hundred years;
    14: but I will bring judgment on the nation which they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions.
    15: As for yourself, you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried in a good old age.
    16: And they shall come back here in the fourth generation; for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete."
    17: When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking fire pot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces.
    18: On that day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, "To your descendants I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphra'tes,
    19: the land of the Ken'ites, the Ken'izzites, the Kad'monites,
    20: the Hittites, the Per'izzites, the Reph'aim,
    21: the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gir'gashites and the Jeb'usites."

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now Sar'ai, Abram's wife, bore him no children. She had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar;
    2: and Sar'ai said to Abram, "Behold now, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children; go in to my maid; it may be that I shall obtain children by her." And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sar'ai.
    3: So, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, Sar'ai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her maid, and gave her to Abram her husband as a wife.
    4: And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived; and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress.
    5: And Sar'ai said to Abram, "May the wrong done to me be on you! I gave my maid to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the LORD judge between you and me!"
    6: But Abram said to Sar'ai, "Behold, your maid is in your power; do to her as you please." Then Sar'ai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her.
    7: The angel of the LORD found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.
    8: And he said, "Hagar, maid of Sar'ai, where have you come from and where are you going?" She said, "I am fleeing from my mistress Sar'ai."
    9: The angel of the LORD said to her, "Return to your mistress, and submit to her."
    10: The angel of the LORD also said to her, "I will so greatly multiply your descendants that they cannot be numbered for multitude."
    11: And the angel of the LORD said to her, "Behold, you are with child, and shall bear a son; you shall call his name Ish'mael; because the LORD has given heed to your affliction.
    12: He shall be a wild ass of a man, his hand against every man and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen."
    13: So she called the name of the LORD who spoke to her, "Thou art a God of seeing"; for she said, "Have I really seen God and remained alive after seeing him?"
    14: Therefore the well was called Beer-la'hai-roi; it lies between Kadesh and Bered.
    15: And Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ish'mael.
    16: Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ish'mael to Abram.

End of day 4.