Day 335:

Reading 1-Timothy, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
    2: To Timothy, my true child in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
    3: As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine,
    4: nor to occupy themselves with myths and endless genealogies which promote speculations rather than the divine training that is in faith;
    5: whereas the aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith.
    6: Certain persons by swerving from these have wandered away into vain discussion,
    7: desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make assertions.
    8: Now we know that the law is good, if any one uses it lawfully,
    9: understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
    10: immoral persons, sodomites, kidnapers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,
    11: in accordance with the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted.
    12: I thank him who has given me strength for this, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful by appointing me to his service,
    13: though I formerly blasphemed and persecuted and insulted him; but I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief,
    14: and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
    15: The saying is sure and worthy of full acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And I am the foremost of sinners;
    16: but I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience for an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.
    17: To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
    18: This charge I commit to you, Timothy, my son, in accordance with the prophetic utterances which pointed to you, that inspired by them you may wage the good warfare,
    19: holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting conscience, certain persons have made shipwreck of their faith,
    20: among them Hymenae'us and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.

  Chapter 2.

    1: First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all men,
    2: for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life, godly and respectful in every way.
    3: This is good, and it is acceptable in the sight of God our Savior,
    4: who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
    5: For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
    6: who gave himself as a ransom for all, the testimony to which was borne at the proper time.
    7: For this I was appointed a preacher and apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
    8: I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;
    9: also that women should adorn themselves modestly and sensibly in seemly apparel, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly attire
    10: but by good deeds, as befits women who profess religion.
    11: Let a woman learn in silence with all submissiveness.
    12: I permit no woman to teach or to have authority over men; she is to keep silent.
    13: For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
    14: and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
    15: Yet woman will be saved through bearing children, if she continues in faith and love and holiness, with modesty.

  Chapter 3.

    1: The saying is sure: If any one aspires to the office of bishop, he desires a noble task.
    2: Now a bishop must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, dignified, hospitable, an apt teacher,
    3: no drunkard, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, and no lover of money.
    4: He must manage his own household well, keeping his children submissive and respectful in every way;
    5: for if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how can he care for God's church?
    6: He must not be a recent convert, or he may be puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil;
    7: moreover he must be well thought of by outsiders, or he may fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
    8: Deacons likewise must be serious, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for gain;
    9: they must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience.
    10: And let them also be tested first; then if they prove themselves blameless let them serve as deacons.
    11: The women likewise must be serious, no slanderers, but temperate, faithful in all things.
    12: Let deacons be the husband of one wife, and let them manage their children and their households well;
    13: for those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
    14: I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these instructions to you so that,
    15: if I am delayed, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and bulwark of the truth.
    16: Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of our religion: He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated in the Spirit, seen by angels, preached among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by giving heed to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons,
    2: through the pretensions of liars whose consciences are seared,
    3: who forbid marriage and enjoin abstinence from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
    4: For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving;
    5: for then it is consecrated by the word of God and prayer.
    6: If you put these instructions before the brethren, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished on the words of the faith and of the good doctrine which you have followed.
    7: Have nothing to do with godless and silly myths. Train yourself in godliness;
    8: for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.
    9: The saying is sure and worthy of full acceptance.
    10: For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
    11: Command and teach these things.
    12: Let no one despise your youth, but set the believers an example in speech and conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
    13: Till I come, attend to the public reading of scripture, to preaching, to teaching.
    14: Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophetic utterance when the council of elders laid their hands upon you.
    15: Practice these duties, devote yourself to them, so that all may see your progress.
    16: Take heed to yourself and to your teaching; hold to that, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers.

End of day 335.