Day 93:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now when David dwelt in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, "Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under a tent."
    2: And Nathan said to David, "Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you."
    3: But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
    4: "Go and tell my servant David, `Thus says the LORD: You shall not build me a house to dwell in.
    5: For I have not dwelt in a house since the day I led up Israel to this day, but I have gone from tent to tent and from dwelling to dwelling.
    6: In all places where I have moved with all Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people, saying, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"'
    7: Now therefore thus shall you say to my servant David, `Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel;
    8: and I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make for you a name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
    9: And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be disturbed no more; and violent men shall waste them no more, as formerly,
    10: from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover I declare to you that the LORD will build you a house.
    11: When your days are fulfilled to go to be with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom.
    12: He shall build a house for me, and I will establish his throne for ever.
    13: I will be his father, and he shall be my son; I will not take my steadfast love from him, as I took it from him who was before you,
    14: but I will confirm him in my house and in my kingdom for ever and his throne shall be established for ever.'"
    15: In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
    16: Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and said, "Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far?
    17: And this was a small thing in thy eyes, O God; thou hast also spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast shown me future generations, O LORD God!
    18: And what more can David say to thee for honoring thy servant? For thou knowest thy servant.
    19: For thy servant's sake, O LORD, and according to thy own heart, thou hast wrought all this greatness, in making known all these great things.
    20: There is none like thee, O LORD, and there is no God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
    21: What other nation on earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem to be his people, making for thyself a name for great and terrible things, in driving out nations before thy people whom thou didst redeem from Egypt?
    22: And thou didst make thy people Israel to be thy people for ever; and thou, O LORD, didst become their God.
    23: And now, O LORD, let the word which thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for ever, and do as thou hast spoken;
    24: and thy name will be established and magnified for ever, saying, `The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God,' and the house of thy servant David will be established before thee.
    25: For thou, my God, hast revealed to thy servant that thou wilt build a house for him; therefore thy servant has found courage to pray before thee.
    26: And now, O LORD, thou art God, and thou hast promised this good thing to thy servant;
    27: now therefore may it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for what thou, O LORD, hast blessed is blessed for ever."

  Chapter 18.

    1: After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines.
    2: And he defeated Moab, and the Mo'abites became servants to David and brought tribute.
    3: David also defeated Hadade'zer king of Zobah, toward Hamath, as he went to set up his monument at the river Euphra'tes.
    4: And David took from him a thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for a hundred chariots.
    5: And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadade'zer king of Zobah, David slew twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
    6: Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
    7: And David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadade'zer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
    8: And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadade'zer, David took very much bronze; with it Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the vessels of bronze.
    9: When To'u king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadade'zer, king of Zobah,
    10: he sent his son Hador'am to King David, to greet him, and to congratulate him because he had fought against Hadade'zer and defeated him; for Hadade'zer had often been at war with To'u. And he sent all sorts of articles of gold, of silver, and of bronze;
    11: these also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold which he had carried off from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Am'alek.
    12: And Abi'shai, the son of Zeru'iah, slew eighteen thousand E'domites in the Valley of Salt.
    13: And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the E'domites became David's servants. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
    14: So David reigned over all Israel; and he administered justice and equity to all his people.
    15: And Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah was over the army; and Jehosh'aphat the son of Ahi'lud was recorder;
    16: and Zadok the son of Ahi'tub and Ahim'elech the son of Abi'athar were priests; and Shavsha was secretary;
    17: and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada was over the Cher'ethites and the Pel'ethites; and David's sons were the chief officials in the service of the king.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Now after this Nahash the king of the Ammonites died, and his son reigned in his stead.
    2: And David said, "I will deal loyally with Hanun the son of Nahash, for his father dealt loyally with me." So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came to Hanun in the land of the Ammonites, to console him.
    3: But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, "Do you think, because David has sent comforters to you, that he is honoring your father? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land?"
    4: So Hanun took David's servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the middle, at their hips, and sent them away;
    5: and they departed. When David was told concerning the men, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, "Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return."
    6: When the Ammonites saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the Ammonites sent a thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopota'mia, from Aram-ma'acah, and from Zobah.
    7: They hired thirty-two thousand chariots and the king of Ma'acah with his army, who came and encamped before Med'eba. And the Ammonites were mustered from their cities and came to battle.
    8: When David heard of it, he sent Jo'ab and all the army of the mighty men.
    9: And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, and the kings who had come were by themselves in the open country.
    10: When Jo'ab saw that the battle was set against him both in front and in the rear, he chose some of the picked men of Israel, and arrayed them against the Syrians;
    11: the rest of his men he put in the charge of Abi'shai his brother, and they were arrayed against the Ammonites.
    12: And he said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will help you.
    13: Be of good courage, and let us play the man for our people, and for the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what seems good to him."
    14: So Jo'ab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians for battle; and they fled before him.
    15: And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abi'shai, Jo'ab's brother, and entered the city. Then Jo'ab came to Jerusalem.
    16: But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the Euphra'tes, with Shophach the commander of the army of Hadade'zer at their head.
    17: And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together, and crossed the Jordan, and came to them, and drew up his forces against them. And when David set the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.
    18: And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the Syrians the men of seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand foot soldiers, and killed also Shophach the commander of their army.
    19: And when the servants of Hadade'zer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with David, and became subject to him. So the Syrians were not willing to help the Ammonites any more.

  Chapter 20.

    1: In the spring of the year, the time when kings go forth to battle, Jo'ab led out the army, and ravaged the country of the Ammonites, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem. And Jo'ab smote Rabbah, and overthrew it.
    2: And David took the crown of their king from his head; he found that it weighed a talent of gold, and in it was a precious stone; and it was placed on David's head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city, a very great amount.
    3: And he brought forth the people who were in it, and set them to labor with saws and iron picks and axes; and thus David did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
    4: And after this there arose war with the Philistines at Gezer; then Sib'becai the Hu'shathite slew Sip'pai, who was one of the descendants of the giants; and the Philistines were subdued.
    5: And there was again war with the Philistines; and Elha'nan the son of Ja'ir slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
    6: And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, who had six fingers on each hand, and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number; and he also was descended from the giants.
    7: And when he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shim'e-a, David's brother, slew him.
    8: These were descended from the giants in Gath; and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.

End of day 93.