Day 150:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: To thee, O LORD, I lift up my soul.
    2: O my God, in thee I trust, let me not be put to shame; let not my enemies exult over me.
    3: Yea, let none that wait for thee be put to shame; let them be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous.
    4: Make me to know thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.
    5: Lead me in thy truth, and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation; for thee I wait all the day long.
    6: Be mindful of thy mercy, O LORD, and of thy steadfast love, for they have been from of old.
    7: Remember not the sins of my youth, or my transgressions; according to thy steadfast love remember me, for thy goodness' sake, O LORD!
    8: Good and upright is the LORD; therefore he instructs sinners in the way.
    9: He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.
    10: All the paths of the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness, for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies.
    11: For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon my guilt, for it is great.
    12: Who is the man that fears the LORD? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose.
    13: He himself shall abide in prosperity, and his children shall possess the land.
    14: The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant.
    15: My eyes are ever toward the LORD, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.
    16: Turn thou to me, and be gracious to me; for I am lonely and afflicted.
    17: Relieve the troubles of my heart, and bring me out of my distresses.
    18: Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins.
    19: Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me.
    20: Oh guard my life, and deliver me; let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in thee.
    21: May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for thee.
    22: Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.

  Chapter 26.

    1: Vindicate me, O LORD, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the LORD without wavering.
    2: Prove me, O LORD, and try me; test my heart and my mind.
    3: For thy steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in faithfulness to thee.
    4: I do not sit with false men, nor do I consort with dissemblers;
    5: I hate the company of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked.
    6: I wash my hands in innocence, and go about thy altar, O LORD,
    7: singing aloud a song of thanksgiving, and telling all thy wondrous deeds.
    8: O LORD, I love the habitation of thy house, and the place where thy glory dwells.
    9: Sweep me not away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men,
    10: men in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes.
    11: But as for me, I walk in my integrity; redeem me, and be gracious to me.
    12: My foot stands on level ground; in the great congregation I will bless the LORD.

  Chapter 27.

    1: The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
    2: When evildoers assail me, uttering slanders against me, my adversaries and foes, they shall stumble and fall.
    3: Though a host encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet I will be confident.
    4: One thing have I asked of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to inquire in his temple.
    5: For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent, he will set me high upon a rock.
    6: And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies round about me; and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing and make melody to the LORD.
    7: Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me!
    8: Thou hast said, "Seek ye my face." My heart says to thee, "Thy face, LORD, do I seek."
    9: Hide not thy face from me. Turn not thy servant away in anger, thou who hast been my help. Cast me not off, forsake me not, O God of my salvation!
    10: For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the LORD will take me up.
    11: Teach me thy way, O LORD; and lead me on a level path because of my enemies.
    12: Give me not up to the will of my adversaries; for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence.
    13: I believe that I shall see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living!
    14: Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your heart take courage; yea, wait for the LORD!

  Chapter 28.

    1: To thee, O LORD, I call; my rock, be not deaf to me, lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the Pit.
    2: Hear the voice of my supplication, as I cry to thee for help, as I lift up my hands toward thy most holy sanctuary.
    3: Take me not off with the wicked, with those who are workers of evil, who speak peace with their neighbors, while mischief is in their hearts.
    4: Requite them according to their work, and according to the evil of their deeds; requite them according to the work of their hands; render them their due reward.
    5: Because they do not regard the works of the LORD, or the work of his hands, he will break them down and build them up no more.
    6: Blessed be the LORD! for he has heard the voice of my supplications.
    7: The LORD is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts; so I am helped, and my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him.
    8: The LORD is the strength of his people, he is the saving refuge of his anointed.
    9: O save thy people, and bless thy heritage; be thou their shepherd, and carry them for ever.

End of day 150.