Day 116:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['13', '14']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Then Tobit wrote a prayer of rejoicing, and said: "Blessed is God who lives for ever, and blessed is his kingdom.
    2: For he afflicts, and he shows mercy; he leads down to Hades, and brings up again, and there is no one who can escape his hand.
    3: Acknowledge him before the nations, O sons of Israel; for he has scattered us among them.
    4: Make his greatness known there, and exalt him in the presence of all the living; because he is our Lord and God, he is our Father for ever.
    5: He will afflict us for our iniquities; and again he will show mercy, and will gather us from all the nations among whom you have been scattered.
    6: If you turn to him with all your heart and with all your soul, to do what is true before him, then he will turn to you and will not hide his face from you. But see what he will do with you; give thanks to him with your full voice. Praise the Lord of righteousness, and exalt the King of the ages. I give him thanks in the land of my captivity, and I show his power and majesty to a nation of sinners. Turn back, you sinners, and do right before him; who knows if he will accept you and have mercy on you?
    7: I exalt my God; my soul exalts the King of heaven, and will rejoice in his majesty.
    8: Let all men speak, and give him thanks in Jerusalem.
    9: O Jerusalem, the holy city, he will afflict you for the deeds of your sons, but again he will show mercy to the sons of the righteous.
    10: Give thanks worthily to the Lord, and praise the King of the ages, that his tent may be raised for you again with joy. May he cheer those within you who are captives, and love those within you who are distressed, to all generations for ever.
    11: Many nations will come from afar to the name of the Lord God, bearing gifts in their hands, gifts for the King of heaven. Generations of generations will give you joyful praise.
    12: Cursed are all who hate you; blessed for ever will be all who love you.
    13: Rejoice and be glad for the sons of the righteous; for they will be gathered together, and will praise the Lord of the righteous.
    14: How blessed are those who love you! They will rejoice in your peace. Blessed are those who grieved over all your afflictions; for they will rejoice for you upon seeing all your glory, and they will be made glad for ever.
    15: Let my soul praise God the great King.
    16: For Jerusalem will be built with sapphires and emeralds, her walls with precious stones, and her towers and battlements with pure gold.
    17: The streets of Jerusalem will be paved with beryl and ruby and stones of Ophir;
    18: all her lanes will cry `Hallelujah!' and will give praise, saying, `Blessed is God, who has exalted you for ever.'"

  Chapter 14.

    1: Here Tobit ended his words of praise.
    2: He was fifty-eight years old when he lost his sight, and after eight years he regained it. He gave alms, and he continued to fear the Lord God and to praise him.
    3: When he had grown very old he called his son and grandsons, and said to him, "My son, take your sons; behold, I have grown old and am about to depart this life.
    4: Go to Media, my son, for I fully believe what Jonah the prophet said about Nineveh, that it will be overthrown. But in Media there will be peace for a time. Our brethren will be scattered over the earth from the good land, and Jerusalem will be desolate. The house of God in it will be burned down and will be in ruins for a time.
    5: But God will again have mercy on them, and bring them back into their land; and they will rebuild the house of God, though it will not be like the former one until the times of the age are completed. After this they will return from the places of their captivity, and will rebuild Jerusalem in splendor. And the house of God will be rebuilt there with a glorious building for all generations for ever, just as the prophets said of it.
    6: Then all the Gentiles will turn to fear the Lord God in truth, and will bury their idols.
    7: All the Gentiles will praise the Lord, and his people will give thanks to God, and the Lord will exalt his people. And all who love the Lord God in truth and righteousness will rejoice, showing mercy to our brethren.
    8: "So now, my son, leave Nineveh, because what the prophet Jonah said will surely happen.
    9: But keep the law and the commandments, and be merciful and just, so that it may be well with you.
    10: Bury me properly, and your mother with me. And do not live in Nineveh any longer. See, my son, what Nadab did to Ahikar who had reared him, how he brought him from light into darkness, and with what he repaid him. But Ahikar was saved, and the other received repayment as he himself went down into the darkness. Ahikar gave alms and escaped the deathtrap which Nadab had set for him; but Nadab fell into the trap and perished.
    11: So now, my children, consider what almsgiving accomplishes and how righteousness delivers." As he said this he died in his bed. He was a hundred and fifty-eight years old; and Tobias gave him a magnificent funeral.
    12: And when Anna died he buried her with his father. Then Tobias returned with his wife and his sons to Ecbatana, to Raguel his father-in-law.
    13: He grew old with honor, and he gave his father-in-law and mother-in-law magnificent funerals. He inherited their property and that of his father Tobit.
    14: He died in Ecbatana of Media at the age of a hundred and twenty-seven years.
    15: But before he died he heard of the destruction of Nineveh, which Nebuchadnezzar and Ahasuerus had captured. Before his death he rejoiced over Nineveh.

End of day 116.