Day 256:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: The hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me out by the Spirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley; it was full of bones.
    2: And he led me round among them; and behold, there were very many upon the valley; and lo, they were very dry.
    3: And he said to me, "Son of man, can these bones live?" And I answered, "O Lord GOD, thou knowest."
    4: Again he said to me, "Prophesy to these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
    5: Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live.
    6: And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live; and you shall know that I am the LORD."
    7: So I prophesied as I was commanded; and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold, a rattling; and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
    8: And as I looked, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them; but there was no breath in them.
    9: Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live."
    10: So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood upon their feet, an exceedingly great host.
    11: Then he said to me, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, `Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.'
    12: Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people; and I will bring you home into the land of Israel.
    13: And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people.
    14: And I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land; then you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken, and I have done it, says the LORD."
    15: The word of the LORD came to me:
    16: "Son of man, take a stick and write on it, `For Judah, and the children of Israel associated with him'; then take another stick and write upon it, `For Joseph (the stick of E'phraim) and all the house of Israel associated with him';
    17: and join them together into one stick, that they may become one in your hand.
    18: And when your people say to you, `Will you not show us what you mean by these?'
    19: say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am about to take the stick of Joseph (which is in the hand of E'phraim) and the tribes of Israel associated with him; and I will join with it the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, that they may be one in my hand.
    20: When the sticks on which you write are in your hand before their eyes,
    21: then say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the people of Israel from the nations among which they have gone, and will gather them from all sides, and bring them to their own land;
    22: and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king over them all; and they shall be no longer two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms.
    23: They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols and their detestable things, or with any of their transgressions; but I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them; and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
    24: "My servant David shall be king over them; and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall follow my ordinances and be careful to observe my statutes.
    25: They shall dwell in the land where your fathers dwelt that I gave to my servant Jacob; they and their children and their children's children shall dwell there for ever; and David my servant shall be their prince for ever.
    26: I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will bless them and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.
    27: My dwelling place shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
    28: Then the nations will know that I the LORD sanctify Israel, when my sanctuary is in the midst of them for evermore."

  Chapter 38.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, set your face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him
    3: and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal;
    4: and I will turn you about, and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you forth, and all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company, all of them with buckler and shield, wielding swords;
    5: Persia, Cush, and Put are with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
    6: Gomer and all his hordes; Beth-togar'mah from the uttermost parts of the north with all his hordes -- many peoples are with you.
    7: "Be ready and keep ready, you and all the hosts that are assembled about you, and be a guard for them.
    8: After many days you will be mustered; in the latter years you will go against the land that is restored from war, the land where people were gathered from many nations upon the mountains of Israel, which had been a continual waste; its people were brought out from the nations and now dwell securely, all of them.
    9: You will advance, coming on like a storm, you will be like a cloud covering the land you and all your hordes, and many peoples with you.
    10: "Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day thoughts will come into your mind, and you will devise an evil scheme
    11: and say, `I will go up against the land of unwalled villages; I will fall upon the quiet people who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having no bars or gates';
    12: to seize spoil and carry off plunder; to assail the waste places which are now inhabited, and the people who were gathered from the nations, who have gotten cattle and goods, who dwell at the center of the earth.
    13: Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish and all its villages will say to you, `Have you come to seize spoil? Have you assembled your hosts to carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to seize great spoil?'
    14: "Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day when my people Israel are dwelling securely, you will bestir yourself
    15: and come from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great host, a mighty army;
    16: you will come up against my people Israel, like a cloud covering the land. In the latter days I will bring you against my land, that the nations may know me, when through you, O Gog, I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
    17: "Thus says the Lord GOD: Are you he of whom I spoke in former days by my servants the prophets of Israel, who in those days prophesied for years that I would bring you against them?
    18: But on that day, when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, says the Lord GOD, my wrath will be roused.
    19: For in my jealousy and in my blazing wrath I declare, On that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel;
    20: the fish of the sea, and the birds of the air, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep on the ground, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth, shall quake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown down, and the cliffs shall fall, and every wall shall tumble to the ground.
    21: I will summon every kind of terror against Gog, says the Lord GOD; every man's sword will be against his brother.
    22: With pestilence and bloodshed I will enter into judgment with him; and I will rain upon him and his hordes and the many peoples that are with him, torrential rains and hailstones, fire and brimstone.
    23: So I will show my greatness and my holiness and make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am the LORD.

  Chapter 39.

    1: "And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal;
    2: and I will turn you about and drive you forward, and bring you up from the uttermost parts of the north, and lead you against the mountains of Israel;
    3: then I will strike your bow from your left hand, and will make your arrows drop out of your right hand.
    4: You shall fall upon the mountains of Israel, you and all your hordes and the peoples that are with you; I will give you to birds of prey of every sort and to the wild beasts to be devoured.
    5: You shall fall in the open field; for I have spoken, says the Lord GOD.
    6: I will send fire on Magog and on those who dwell securely in the coastlands; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
    7: "And my holy name I will make known in the midst of my people Israel; and I will not let my holy name be profaned any more; and the nations shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.
    8: Behold, it is coming and it will be brought about, says the Lord GOD. That is the day of which I have spoken.
    9: "Then those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go forth and make fires of the weapons and burn them, shields and bucklers, bows and arrows, handpikes and spears, and they will make fires of them for seven years;
    10: so that they will not need to take wood out of the field or cut down any out of the forests, for they will make their fires of the weapons; they will despoil those who despoiled them, and plunder those who plundered them, says the Lord GOD.
    11: "On that day I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the Valley of the Travelers east of the sea; it will block the travelers, for there Gog and all his multitude will be buried; it will be called the Valley of Hamon-gog.
    12: For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them, in order to cleanse the land.
    13: All the people of the land will bury them; and it will redound to their honor on the day that I show my glory, says the Lord GOD.
    14: They will set apart men to pass through the land continually and bury those remaining upon the face of the land, so as to cleanse it; at the end of seven months they will make their search.
    15: And when these pass through the land and any one sees a man's bone, then he shall set up a sign by it, till the buriers have buried it in the Valley of Hamon-gog.
    16: (A city Hamo'nah is there also.) Thus shall they cleanse the land.
    17: "As for you, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: Speak to the birds of every sort and to all beasts of the field, `Assemble and come, gather from all sides to the sacrificial feast which I am preparing for you, a great sacrificial feast upon the mountains of Israel, and you shall eat flesh and drink blood.
    18: You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth -- of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
    19: And you shall eat fat till you are filled, and drink blood till you are drunk, at the sacrificial feast which I am preparing for you.
    20: And you shall be filled at my table with horses and riders, with mighty men and all kinds of warriors,' says the Lord GOD.
    21: "And I will set my glory among the nations; and all the nations shall see my judgment which I have executed, and my hand which I have laid on them.
    22: The house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God, from that day forward.
    23: And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity, because they dealt so treacherously with me that I hid my face from them and gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword.
    24: I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions, and hid my face from them.
    25: "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel; and I will be jealous for my holy name.
    26: They shall forget their shame, and all the treachery they have practiced against me, when they dwell securely in their land with none to make them afraid,
    27: when I have brought them back from the peoples and gathered them from their enemies' lands, and through them have vindicated my holiness in the sight of many nations.
    28: Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God because I sent them into exile among the nations, and then gathered them into their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations any more;
    29: and I will not hide my face any more from them, when I pour out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 40.

    1: In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was conquered, on that very day, the hand of the LORD was upon me,
    2: and brought me in the visions of God into the land of Israel, and set me down upon a very high mountain, on which was a structure like a city opposite me.
    3: When he brought me there, behold, there was a man, whose appearance was like bronze, with a line of flax and a measuring reed in his hand; and he was standing in the gateway.
    4: And the man said to me, "Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your mind upon all that I shall show you, for you were brought here in order that I might show it to you; declare all that you see to the house of Israel."
    5: And behold, there was a wall all around the outside of the temple area, and the length of the measuring reed in the man's hand was six long cubits, each being a cubit and a handbreadth in length; so he measured the thickness of the wall, one reed; and the height, one reed.
    6: Then he went into the gateway facing east, going up its steps, and measured the threshold of the gate, one reed deep;
    7: and the side rooms, one reed long, and one reed broad; and the space between the side rooms, five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the vestibule of the gate at the inner end, one reed.
    8: Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, eight cubits;
    9: and its jambs, two cubits; and the vestibule of the gate was at the inner end.
    10: And there were three side rooms on either side of the east gate; the three were of the same size; and the jambs on either side were of the same size.
    11: Then he measured the breadth of the opening of the gateway, ten cubits; and the breadth of the gateway, thirteen cubits.
    12: There was a barrier before the side rooms, one cubit on either side; and the side rooms were six cubits on either side.
    13: Then he measured the gate from the back of the one side room to the back of the other, a breadth of five and twenty cubits, from door to door.
    14: He measured also the vestibule, twenty cubits; and round about the vestibule of the gateway was the court.
    15: From the front of the gate at the entrance to the end of the inner vestibule of the gate was fifty cubits.
    16: And the gateway had windows round about, narrowing inwards into their jambs in the side rooms, and likewise the vestibule had windows round about inside, and on the jambs were palm trees.
    17: Then he brought me into the outer court; and behold, there were chambers and a pavement, round about the court; thirty chambers fronted on the pavement.
    18: And the pavement ran along the side of the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates; this was the lower pavement.
    19: Then he measured the distance from the inner front of the lower gate to the outer front of the inner court, a hundred cubits. Then he went before me to the north,
    20: and behold, there was a gate which faced toward the north, belonging to the outer court. He measured its length and its breadth.
    21: Its side rooms, three on either side, and its jambs and its vestibule were of the same size as those of the first gate; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
    22: And its windows, its vestibule, and its palm trees were of the same size as those of the gate which faced toward the east; and seven steps led up to it; and its vestibule was on the inside.
    23: And opposite the gate on the north, as on the east, was a gate to the inner court; and he measured from gate to gate, a hundred cubits.
    24: And he led me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate on the south; and he measured its jambs and its vestibule; they had the same size as the others.
    25: And there were windows round about in it and in its vestibule, like the windows of the others; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
    26: And there were seven steps leading up to it, and its vestibule was on the inside; and it had palm trees on its jambs, one on either side.
    27: And there was a gate on the south of the inner court; and he measured from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
    28: Then he brought me to the inner court by the south gate, and he measured the south gate; it was of the same size as the others;
    29: Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others; and there were windows round about in it and in its vestibule; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
    30: And there were vestibules round about, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits broad.
    31: Its vestibule faced the outer court, and palm trees were on its jambs, and its stairway had eight steps.
    32: Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side, and he measured the gate; it was of the same size as the others.
    33: Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others; and there were windows round about in it and in its vestibule; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
    34: Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, one on either side; and its stairway had eight steps.
    35: Then he brought me to the north gate, and he measured it; it had the same size as the others.
    36: Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others; and it had windows round about; its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
    37: Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, one on either side; and its stairway had eight steps.
    38: There was a chamber with its door in the vestibule of the gate, where the burnt offering was to be washed.
    39: And in the vestibule of the gate were two tables on either side, on which the burnt offering and the sin offering and the guilt offering were to be slaughtered.
    40: And on the outside of the vestibule at the entrance of the north gate were two tables; and on the other side of the vestibule of the gate were two tables.
    41: Four tables were on the inside, and four tables on the outside of the side of the gate, eight tables, on which the sacrifices were to be slaughtered.
    42: And there were also four tables of hewn stone for the burnt offering, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high, on which the instruments were to be laid with which the burnt offerings and the sacrifices were slaughtered.
    43: And hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened round about within. And on the tables the flesh of the offering was to be laid.
    44: Then he brought me from without into the inner court, and behold, there were two chambers in the inner court, one at the side of the north gate facing south, the other at the side of the south gate facing north.
    45: And he said to me, This chamber which faces south is for the priests who have charge of the temple,
    46: and the chamber which faces north is for the priests who have charge of the altar; these are the sons of Zadok, who alone among the sons of Levi may come near to the LORD to minister to him.
    47: And he measured the court, a hundred cubits long, and a hundred cubits broad, foursquare; and the altar was in front of the temple.
    48: Then he brought me to the vestibule of the temple and measured the jambs of the vestibule, five cubits on either side; and the breadth of the gate was fourteen cubits; and the sidewalls of the gate were three cubits on either side.
    49: The length of the vestibule was twenty cubits, and the breadth twelve cubits; and ten steps led up to it; and there were pillars beside the jambs on either side.

End of day 256.