Day 39:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: These are the stages of the people of Israel, when they went forth out of the land of Egypt by their hosts under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.
    2: Moses wrote down their starting places, stage by stage, by command of the LORD; and these are their stages according to their starting places.
    3: They set out from Ram'eses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the day after the passover the people of Israel went out triumphantly in the sight of all the Egyptians,
    4: while the Egyptians were burying all their first-born, whom the LORD had struck down among them; upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
    5: So the people of Israel set out from Ram'eses, and encamped at Succoth.
    6: And they set out from Succoth, and encamped at Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness.
    7: And they set out from Etham, and turned back to Pi-hahi'roth, which is east of Ba'al-ze'phon; and they encamped before Migdol.
    8: And they set out from before Hahi'roth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and they went a three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped at Marah.
    9: And they set out from Marah, and came to Elim; at Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there.
    10: And they set out from Elim, and encamped by the Red Sea.
    11: And they set out from the Red Sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
    12: And they set out from the wilderness of Sin, and encamped at Dophkah.
    13: And they set out from Dophkah, and encamped at Alush.
    14: And they set out from Alush, and encamped at Reph'idim, where there was no water for the people to drink.
    15: And they set out from Reph'idim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai.
    16: And they set out from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped at Kib'roth-hatta'avah.
    17: And they set out from Kib'roth-hatta'avah, and encamped at Haze'roth.
    18: And they set out from Haze'roth, and encamped at Rithmah.
    19: And they set out from Rithmah, and encamped at Rim'mon-per'ez.
    20: And they set out from Rim'mon-per'ez, and encamped at Libnah.
    21: And they set out from Libnah, and encamped at Rissah.
    22: And they set out from Rissah, and encamped at Kehela'thah.
    23: And they set out from Kehela'thah, and encamped at Mount Shepher.
    24: And they set out from Mount Shepher, and encamped at Hara'dah.
    25: And they set out from Hara'dah, and encamped at Makhe'loth.
    26: And they set out from Makhe'loth, and encamped at Tahath.
    27: And they set out from Tahath, and encamped at Terah.
    28: And they set out from Terah, and encamped at Mithkah.
    29: And they set out from Mithkah, and encamped at Hashmo'nah.
    30: And they set out from Hashmo'nah, and encamped at Mose'roth.
    31: And they set out from Mose'roth, and encamped at Bene-ja'akan.
    32: And they set out from Bene-ja'akan, and encamped at Hor-haggid'gad.
    33: And they set out from Hor-haggid'gad, and encamped at Jot'bathah.
    34: And they set out from Jot'bathah, and encamped at Abro'nah.
    35: And they set out from Abro'nah, and encamped at E'zion-ge'ber.
    36: And they set out from E'zion-ge'ber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin (that is, Kadesh).
    37: And they set out from Kadesh, and encamped at Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom.
    38: And Aaron the priest went up Mount Hor at the command of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the people of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month.
    39: And Aaron was a hundred and twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.
    40: And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who dwelt in the Negeb in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the people of Israel.
    41: And they set out from Mount Hor, and encamped at Zalmo'nah.
    42: And they set out from Zalmo'nah, and encamped at Punon.
    43: And they set out from Punon, and encamped at Oboth.
    44: And they set out from Oboth, and encamped at I'ye-ab'arim, in the territory of Moab.
    45: And they set out from I'yim, and encamped at Dibon-gad.
    46: And they set out from Dibon-gad, and encamped at Al'mon-diblatha'im.
    47: And they set out from Al'mon-diblatha'im, and encamped in the mountains of Ab'arim, before Nebo.
    48: And they set out from the mountains of Ab'arim, and encamped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho;
    49: they encamped by the Jordan from Beth-jes'himoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
    50: And the LORD said to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho,
    51: "Say to the people of Israel, When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
    52: then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their figured stones, and destroy all their molten images, and demolish all their high places;
    53: and you shall take possession of the land and settle in it, for I have given the land to you to possess it.
    54: You shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance; wherever the lot falls to any man, that shall be his; according to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit.
    55: But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those of them whom you let remain shall be as pricks in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land where you dwell.
    56: And I will do to you as I thought to do to them."

  Chapter 34.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Command the people of Israel, and say to them, When you enter the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan in its full extent),
    3: your south side shall be from the wilderness of Zin along the side of Edom, and your southern boundary shall be from the end of the Salt Sea on the east;
    4: and your boundary shall turn south of the ascent of Akrab'bim, and cross to Zin, and its end shall be south of Ka'desh-bar'nea; then it shall go on to Ha'zar-ad'dar, and pass along to Azmon;
    5: and the boundary shall turn from Azmon to the Brook of Egypt, and its termination shall be at the sea.
    6: "For the western boundary, you shall have the Great Sea and its coast; this shall be your western boundary.
    7: "This shall be your northern boundary: from the Great Sea you shall mark out your line to Mount Hor;
    8: from Mount Hor you shall mark it out to the entrance of Hamath, and the end of the boundary shall be at Zeded;
    9: then the boundary shall extend to Ziphron, and its end shall be at Ha'zar-e'nan; this shall be your northern boundary.
    10: "You shall mark out your eastern boundary from Ha'zar-e'nan to Shepham;
    11: and the boundary shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of A'in; and the boundary shall go down, and reach to the shoulder of the sea of Chin'nereth on the east;
    12: and the boundary shall go down to the Jordan, and its end shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land with its boundaries all round."
    13: Moses commanded the people of Israel, saying, "This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which the LORD has commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half-tribe;
    14: for the tribe of the sons of Reuben by fathers' houses and the tribe of the sons of Gad by their fathers' houses have received their inheritance, and also the half-tribe of Manas'seh;
    15: the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise."
    16: The LORD said to Moses,
    17: "These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Elea'zar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun.
    18: You shall take one leader of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance.
    19: These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephun'neh.
    20: Of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemu'el the son of Ammi'hud.
    21: Of the tribe of Benjamin, Eli'dad the son of Chislon.
    22: Of the tribe of the sons of Dan a leader, Bukki the son of Jogli.
    23: Of the sons of Joseph: of the tribe of the sons of Manas'seh a leader, Han'niel the son of Ephod.
    24: And of the tribe of the sons of E'phraim a leader, Kemu'el the son of Shiphtan.
    25: Of the tribe of the sons of Zeb'ulun a leader, Eli-za'phan the son of Parnach.
    26: Of the tribe of the sons of Is'sachar a leader, Pal'tiel the son of Azzan.
    27: And of the tribe of the sons of Asher a leader, Ahi'hud the son of Shelo'mi.
    28: Of the tribe of the sons of Naph'tali a leader, Pedah'el the son of Ammi'hud.
    29: These are the men whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance for the people of Israel in the land of Canaan."

  Chapter 35.

    1: The LORD said to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho,
    2: "Command the people of Israel, that they give to the Levites, from the inheritance of their possession, cities to dwell in; and you shall give to the Levites pasture lands round about the cities.
    3: The cities shall be theirs to dwell in, and their pasture lands shall be for their cattle and for their livestock and for all their beasts.
    4: The pasture lands of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall reach from the wall of the city outward a thousand cubits all round.
    5: And you shall measure, outside the city, for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits, and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the middle; this shall belong to them as pasture land for their cities.
    6: The cities which you give to the Levites shall be the six cities of refuge, where you shall permit the manslayer to flee, and in addition to them you shall give forty-two cities.
    7: All the cities which you give to the Levites shall be forty-eight, with their pasture lands.
    8: And as for the cities which you shall give from the possession of the people of Israel, from the larger tribes you shall take many, and from the smaller tribes you shall take few; each, in proportion to the inheritance which it inherits, shall give of its cities to the Levites."
    9: And the LORD said to Moses,
    10: "Say to the people of Israel, When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
    11: then you shall select cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer who kills any person without intent may flee there.
    12: The cities shall be for you a refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer may not die until he stands before the congregation for judgment.
    13: And the cities which you give shall be your six cities of refuge.
    14: You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and three cities in the land of Canaan, to be cities of refuge.
    15: These six cities shall be for refuge for the people of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner among them, that any one who kills any person without intent may flee there.
    16: "But if he struck him down with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall be put to death.
    17: And if he struck him down with a stone in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall be put to death.
    18: Or if he struck him down with a weapon of wood in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall be put to death.
    19: The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death; when he meets him, he shall put him to death.
    20: And if he stabbed him from hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
    21: or in enmity struck him down with his hand, so that he died, then he who struck the blow shall be put to death; he is a murderer; the avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him.
    22: "But if he stabbed him suddenly without enmity, or hurled anything on him without lying in wait,
    23: or used a stone, by which a man may die, and without seeing him cast it upon him, so that he died, though he was not his enemy, and did not seek his harm;
    24: then the congregation shall judge between the manslayer and the avenger of blood, in accordance with these ordinances;
    25: and the congregation shall rescue the manslayer from the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, to which he had fled, and he shall live in it until the death of the high priest who was anointed with the holy oil.
    26: But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the bounds of his city of refuge to which he fled,
    27: and the avenger of blood finds him outside the bounds of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood slays the manslayer, he shall not be guilty of blood.
    28: For the man must remain in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest; but after the death of the high priest the manslayer may return to the land of his possession.
    29: "And these things shall be for a statute and ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
    30: If any one kills a person, the murderer shall be put to death on the evidence of witnesses; but no person shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness.
    31: Moreover you shall accept no ransom for the life of a murderer, who is guilty of death; but he shall be put to death.
    32: And you shall accept no ransom for him who has fled to his city of refuge, that he may return to dwell in the land before the death of the high priest.
    33: You shall not thus pollute the land in which you live; for blood pollutes the land, and no expiation can be made for the land, for the blood that is shed in it, except by the blood of him who shed it.
    34: You shall not defile the land in which you live, in the midst of which I dwell; for I the LORD dwell in the midst of the people of Israel."

  Chapter 36.

    1: The heads of the fathers' houses of the families of the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manas'seh, of the fathers' houses of the sons of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the leaders, the heads of the fathers' houses of the people of Israel;
    2: they said, "The LORD commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the people of Israel; and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zeloph'ehad our brother to his daughters.
    3: But if they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the people of Israel then their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of our fathers, and added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they belong; so it will be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
    4: And when the jubilee of the people of Israel comes, then their inheritance will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they belong; and their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers."
    5: And Moses commanded the people of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, "The tribe of the sons of Joseph is right.
    6: This is what the LORD commands concerning the daughters of Zeloph'ehad, 'Let them marry whom they think best; only, they shall marry within the family of the tribe of their father.
    7: The inheritance of the people of Israel shall not be transferred from one tribe to another; for every one of the people of Israel shall cleave to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
    8: And every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the people of Israel shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, so that every one of the people of Israel may possess the inheritance of his fathers.
    9: So no inheritance shall be transferred from one tribe to another; for each of the tribes of the people of Israel shall cleave to its own inheritance.'"
    10: The daughters of Zeloph'ehad did as the LORD commanded Moses;
    11: for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zeloph'ehad, were married to sons of their father's brothers.
    12: They were married into the families of the sons of Manas'seh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
    13: These are the commandments and the ordinances which the LORD commanded by Moses to the people of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.

End of day 39.