Day 300:

Reading Luke, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: He looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury;
    2: and he saw a poor widow put in two copper coins.
    3: And he said, "Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them;
    4: for they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all the living that she had."
    5: And as some spoke of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he said,
    6: "As for these things which you see, the days will come when there shall not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."
    7: And they asked him, "Teacher, when will this be, and what will be the sign when this is about to take place?"
    8: And he said, "Take heed that you are not led astray; for many will come in my name, saying, `I am he!' and, `The time is at hand!' Do not go after them.
    9: And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be terrified; for this must first take place, but the end will not be at once."
    10: Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
    11: there will be great earthquakes, and in various places famines and pestilences; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
    12: But before all this they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake.
    13: This will be a time for you to bear testimony.
    14: Settle it therefore in your minds, not to meditate beforehand how to answer;
    15: for I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.
    16: You will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and kinsmen and friends, and some of you they will put to death;
    17: you will be hated by all for my name's sake.
    18: But not a hair of your head will perish.
    19: By your endurance you will gain your lives.
    20: "But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near.
    21: Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out in the country enter it;
    22: for these are days of vengeance, to fulfil all that is written.
    23: Alas for those who are with child and for those who give suck in those days! For great distress shall be upon the earth and wrath upon this people;
    24: they will fall by the edge of the sword, and be led captive among all nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
    25: "And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth distress of nations in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the waves,
    26: men fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
    27: And then they will see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
    28: Now when these things begin to take place, look up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near."
    29: And he told them a parable: "Look at the fig tree, and all the trees;
    30: as soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near.
    31: So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
    32: Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away till all has taken place.
    33: Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
    34: "But take heed to yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a snare;
    35: for it will come upon all who dwell upon the face of the whole earth.
    36: But watch at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that will take place, and to stand before the Son of man."
    37: And every day he was teaching in the temple, but at night he went out and lodged on the mount called Olivet.
    38: And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.

  Chapter 22.

    1: Now the feast of Unleavened Bread drew near, which is called the Passover.
    2: And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put him to death; for they feared the people.
    3: Then Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve;
    4: he went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them.
    5: And they were glad, and engaged to give him money.
    6: So he agreed, and sought an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of the multitude.
    7: Then came the day of Unleavened Bread, on which the passover lamb had to be sacrificed.
    8: So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the passover for us, that we may eat it."
    9: They said to him, "Where will you have us prepare it?"
    10: He said to them, "Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him into the house which he enters,
    11: and tell the householder, `The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room, where I am to eat the passover with my disciples?'
    12: And he will show you a large upper room furnished; there make ready."
    13: And they went, and found it as he had told them; and they prepared the passover.
    14: And when the hour came, he sat at table, and the apostles with him.
    15: And he said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer;
    16: for I tell you I shall not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God."
    17: And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said, "Take this, and divide it among yourselves;
    18: for I tell you that from now on I shall not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes."
    19: And he took bread, and when he had given thanks he broke it and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."
    20: And likewise the cup after supper, saying, "This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.
    21: But behold the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table.
    22: For the Son of man goes as it has been determined; but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed!"
    23: And they began to question one another, which of them it was that would do this.
    24: A dispute also arose among them, which of them was to be regarded as the greatest.
    25: And he said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and those in authority over them are called benefactors.
    26: But not so with you; rather let the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves.
    27: For which is the greater, one who sits at table, or one who serves? Is it not the one who sits at table? But I am among you as one who serves.
    28: "You are those who have continued with me in my trials;
    29: and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom,
    30: that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
    31: "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat,
    32: but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail; and when you have turned again, strengthen your brethren."
    33: And he said to him, "Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death."
    34: He said, "I tell you, Peter, the cock will not crow this day, until you three times deny that you know me."
    35: And he said to them, "When I sent you out with no purse or bag or sandals, did you lack anything?" They said, "Nothing."
    36: He said to them, "But now, let him who has a purse take it, and likewise a bag. And let him who has no sword sell his mantle and buy one.
    37: For I tell you that this scripture must be fulfilled in me, `And he was reckoned with transgressors'; for what is written about me has its fulfilment."
    38: And they said, "Look, Lord, here are two swords." And he said to them, "It is enough."
    39: And he came out, and went, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples followed him.
    40: And when he came to the place he said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation."
    41: And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed,
    42: "Father, if thou art willing, remove this cup from me; nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done."
    43: And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
    44: And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly; and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down upon the ground.
    45: And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow,
    46: and he said to them, "Why do you sleep? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation."
    47: While he was still speaking, there came a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him;
    48: but Jesus said to him, "Judas, would you betray the Son of man with a kiss?"
    49: And when those who were about him saw what would follow, they said, "Lord, shall we strike with the sword?"
    50: And one of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
    51: But Jesus said, "No more of this!" And he touched his ear and healed him.
    52: Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders, who had come out against him, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
    53: When I was with you day after day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness."
    54: Then they seized him and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house. Peter followed at a distance;
    55: and when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them.
    56: Then a maid, seeing him as he sat in the light and gazing at him, said, "This man also was with him."
    57: But he denied it, saying, "Woman, I do not know him."
    58: And a little later some one else saw him and said, "You also are one of them." But Peter said, "Man, I am not."
    59: And after an interval of about an hour still another insisted, saying, "Certainly this man also was with him; for he is a Galilean."
    60: But Peter said, "Man, I do not know what you are saying." And immediately, while he was still speaking, the cock crowed.
    61: And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said to him, "Before the cock crows today, you will deny me three times."
    62: And he went out and wept bitterly.
    63: Now the men who were holding Jesus mocked him and beat him;
    64: they also blindfolded him and asked him, "Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?"
    65: And they spoke many other words against him, reviling him.
    66: When day came, the assembly of the elders of the people gathered together, both chief priests and scribes; and they led him away to their council, and they said,
    67: "If you are the Christ, tell us." But he said to them, "If I tell you, you will not believe;
    68: and if I ask you, you will not answer.
    69: But from now on the Son of man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God."
    70: And they all said, "Are you the Son of God, then?" And he said to them, "You say that I am."
    71: And they said, "What further testimony do we need? We have heard it ourselves from his own lips."

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then the whole company of them arose, and brought him before Pilate.
    2: And they began to accuse him, saying, "We found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king."
    3: And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
    4: And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, "I find no crime in this man."
    5: But they were urgent, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even to this place."
    6: When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
    7: And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was himself in Jerusalem at that time.
    8: When Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, for he had long desired to see him, because he had heard about him, and he was hoping to see some sign done by him.
    9: So he questioned him at some length; but he made no answer.
    10: The chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing him.
    11: And Herod with his soldiers treated him with contempt and mocked him; then, arraying him in gorgeous apparel, he sent him back to Pilate.
    12: And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before this they had been at enmity with each other.
    13: Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
    14: and said to them, "You brought me this man as one who was perverting the people; and after examining him before you, behold, I did not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him;
    15: neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Behold, nothing deserving death has been done by him;
    16: I will therefore chastise him and release him."
    17: But they all cried out together, "Away with this man, and release to us Barab'bas" --
    18: a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city, and for murder.
    19: Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus;
    20: but they shouted out, "Crucify, crucify him!"
    21: A third time he said to them, "Why, what evil has he done? I have found in him no crime deserving death; I will therefore chastise him and release him."
    22: But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified. And their voices prevailed.
    23: So Pilate gave sentence that their demand should be granted.
    24: He released the man who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
    25: And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyre'ne, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it behind Jesus.
    26: And there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of women who bewailed and lamented him.
    27: But Jesus turning to them said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
    28: For behold, the days are coming when they will say, `Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never gave suck!'
    29: Then they will begin to say to the mountains, `Fall on us'; and to the hills, `Cover us.'
    30: For if they do this when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?"
    31: Two others also, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him.
    32: And when they came to the place which is called The Skull, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left.
    33: And Jesus said, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." And they cast lots to divide his garments.
    34: And the people stood by, watching; but the rulers scoffed at him, saying, "He saved others; let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his Chosen One!"
    35: The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him vinegar,
    36: and saying, "If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!"
    37: There was also an inscription over him, "This is the King of the Jews."
    38: One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, "Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!"
    39: But the other rebuked him, saying, "Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?
    40: And we indeed justly; for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong."
    41: And he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom."
    42: And he said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise."
    43: It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour,
    44: while the sun's light failed; and the curtain of the temple was torn in two.
    45: Then Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, "Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit!" And having said this he breathed his last.
    46: Now when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, and said, "Certainly this man was innocent!"
    47: And all the multitudes who assembled to see the sight, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts.
    48: And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance and saw these things.
    49: Now there was a man named Joseph from the Jewish town of Arimathe'a. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man,
    50: who had not consented to their purpose and deed, and he was looking for the kingdom of God.
    51: This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
    52: Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud, and laid him in a rock-hewn tomb, where no one had ever yet been laid.
    53: It was the day of Preparation, and the sabbath was beginning.
    54: The women who had come with him from Galilee followed, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid;
    55: then they returned, and prepared spices and ointments. On the sabbath they rested according to the commandment.

  Chapter 24.

    1: But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices which they had prepared.
    2: And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,
    3: but when they went in they did not find the body.
    4: While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel;
    5: and as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the dead?
    6: Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,
    7: that the Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise."
    8: And they remembered his words,
    9: and returning from the tomb they told all this to the eleven and to all the rest.
    10: Now it was Mary Mag'dalene and Jo-an'na and Mary the mother of James and the other women with them who told this to the apostles;
    11: but these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them.
    12: But Peter rose and ran to the tomb; stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves; and he went home wondering at what had happened.
    13: That very day two of them were going to a village named Emma'us, about seven miles from Jerusalem,
    14: and talking with each other about all these things that had happened.
    15: While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them.
    16: But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
    17: And he said to them, "What is this conversation which you are holding with each other as you walk?" And they stood still, looking sad.
    18: Then one of them, named Cle'opas, answered him, "Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?"
    19: And he said to them, "What things?" And they said to him, "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,
    20: and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
    21: But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since this happened.
    22: Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning
    23: and did not find his body; and they came back saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
    24: Some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had said; but him they did not see."
    25: And he said to them, "O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
    26: Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?"
    27: And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
    28: So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He appeared to be going further,
    29: but they constrained him, saying, "Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far spent." So he went in to stay with them.
    30: When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them.
    31: And their eyes were opened and they recognized him; and he vanished out of their sight.
    32: They said to each other, "Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures?"
    33: And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem; and they found the eleven gathered together and those who were with them,
    34: who said, "The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!"
    35: Then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread.
    36: As they were saying this, Jesus himself stood among them.
    37: But they were startled and frightened, and supposed that they saw a spirit.
    38: And he said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do questionings rise in your hearts?
    39: See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me, and see; for a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see that I have."
    40: And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said to them, "Have you anything here to eat?"
    41: They gave him a piece of broiled fish,
    42: and he took it and ate before them.
    43: Then he said to them, "These are my words which I spoke to you, while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled."
    44: Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures,
    45: and said to them, "Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead,
    46: and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
    47: You are witnesses of these things.
    48: And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you; but stay in the city, until you are clothed with power from on high."
    49: Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them.
    50: While he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven.
    51: And they returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
    52: and were continually in the temple blessing God.

End of day 300.