Day 118:

Reading Judith, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: When Holofernes, the general of the Assyrian army, heard that the people of Israel had prepared for war and had closed the passes in the hills and fortified all the high hilltops and set up barricades in the plains,
    2: he was very angry. So he called together all the princes of Moab and the commanders of Ammon and all the governors of the coastland,
    3: and said to them, "Tell me, you Canaanites, what people is this that lives in the hill country? What cities do they inhabit? How large is their army, and in what does their power or strength consist? Who rules over them as king, leading their army?
    4: And why have they alone, of all who live in the west, refused to come out and meet me?"
    5: Then Achior, the leader of all the Ammonites, said to him, "Let my lord now hear a word from the mouth of your servant, and I will tell you the truth about this people that dwells in the nearby mountain district. No falsehood shall come from your servant's mouth.
    6: This people is descended from the Chaldeans.
    7: At one time they lived in Mesopotamia, because they would not follow the gods of their fathers who were in Chaldea.
    8: For they had left the ways of their ancestors, and they worshiped the God of heaven, the God they had come to know; hence they drove them out from the presence of their gods; and they fled to Mesopotamia, and lived there for a long time.
    9: Then their God commanded them to leave the place where they were living and go to the land of Canaan. There they settled, and prospered, with much gold and silver and very many cattle.
    10: When a famine spread over Canaan they went down to Egypt and lived there as long as they had food; and there they became a great multitude -- so great that they could not be counted.
    11: So the king of Egypt became hostile to them; he took advantage of them and set them to making bricks, and humbled them and made slaves of them.
    12: Then they cried out to their God, and he afflicted the whole land of Egypt with incurable plagues; and so the Egyptians drove them out of their sight.
    13: Then God dried up the Red Sea before them,
    14: and he led them by the way of Sinai and Kadesh-barnea, and drove out all the people of the wilderness.
    15: So they lived in the land of the Amorites, and by their might destroyed all the inhabitants of Heshbon; and crossing over the Jordan they took possession of all the hill country.
    16: And they drove out before them the Canaanites and the Perizzites and the Jebusites and the Shechemites and all the Gergesites, and lived there a long time.
    17: As long as they did not sin against their God they prospered, for the God who hates iniquity is with them.
    18: But when they departed from the way which he had appointed for them, they were utterly defeated in many battles and were led away captive to a foreign country; the temple of their God was razed to the ground, and their cities were captured by their enemies.
    19: But now they have returned to their God, and have come back from the places to which they were scattered, and have occupied Jerusalem, where their sanctuary is, and have settled in the hill country, because it was uninhabited.
    20: Now therefore, my master and lord, if there is any unwitting error in this people and they sin against their God and we find out their offense, then we will go up and defeat them.
    21: But if there is no transgression in their nation, then let my lord pass them by; for their Lord will defend them, and their God will protect them, and we shall be put to shame before the whole world."
    22: When Achior had finished saying this, all the men standing around the tent began to complain; Holofernes' officers and all the men from the seacoast and from Moab insisted that he must be put to death.
    23: "For," they said, "we will not be afraid of the Israelites; they are a people with no strength or power for making war.
    24: Therefore let us go up, Lord Holofernes, and they will be devoured by your vast army."

  Chapter 6.

    1: When the disturbance made by the men outside the council died down, Holofernes, the commander of the Assyrian army, said to Achior and all the Moabites in the presence of all the foreign contingents:
    2: "And who are you, Achior, and you hirelings of Ephraim, to prophesy among us as you have done today and tell us not to make war against the people of Israel because their God will defend them? Who is God except Nebuchadnezzar?
    3: He will send his forces and will destroy them from the face of the earth, and their God will not deliver them -- we the king's servants will destroy them as one man. They cannot resist the might of our cavalry.
    4: We will burn them up, and their mountains will be drunk with their blood, and their fields will be full of their dead. They cannot withstand us, but will utterly perish. So says King Nebuchadnezzar, the lord of the whole earth. For he has spoken; none of his words shall be in vain.
    5: "But you, Achior, you Ammonite hireling, who have said these words on the day of your iniquity, you shall not see my face again from this day until I take revenge on this race that came out of Egypt.
    6: Then the sword of my army and the spear of my servants shall pierce your sides, and you shall fall among their wounded, when I return.
    7: Now my slaves are going to take you back into the hill country and put you in one of the cities beside the passes,
    8: and you will not die until you perish along with them.
    9: If you really hope in your heart that they will not be taken, do not look downcast! I have spoken and none of my words shall fail."
    10: Then Holofernes ordered his slaves, who waited on him in his tent, to seize Achior and take him to Bethulia and hand him over to the men of Israel.
    11: So the slaves took him and led him out of the camp into the plain, and from the plain they went up into the hill country and came to the springs below Bethulia.
    12: When the men of the city saw them, they caught up their weapons and ran out of the city to the top of the hill, and all the slingers kept them from coming up by casting stones at them.
    13: However, they got under the shelter of the hill and they bound Achior and left him lying at the foot of the hill, and returned to their master.
    14: Then the men of Israel came down from their city and found him; and they untied him and brought him into Bethulia and placed him before the magistrates of their city,
    15: who in those days were Uzziah the son of Micah, of the tribe of Simeon, and Chabris the son of Gothoniel, and Charmis the son of Melchiel.
    16: They called together all the elders of the city, and all their young men and their women ran to the assembly; and they set Achior in the midst of all their people, and Uzziah asked him what had happened.
    17: He answered and told them what had taken place at the council of Holofernes, and all that he had said in the presence of the Assyrian leaders, and all that Holofernes had said so boastfully against the house of Israel.
    18: Then the people fell down and worshiped God, and cried out to him, and said,
    19: "O Lord God of heaven, behold their arrogance, and have pity on the humiliation of our people, and look this day upon the faces of those who are consecrated to thee."
    20: Then they consoled Achior, and praised him greatly.
    21: And Uzziah took him from the assembly to his own house and gave a banquet for the elders; and all that night they called on the God of Israel for help.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The next day Holofernes ordered his whole army, and all the allies who had joined him, to break camp and move against Bethulia, and to seize the passes up into the hill country and make war on the Israelites.
    2: So all their warriors moved their camp that day; their force of men of war was one hundred and seventy thousand infantry and twelve thousand cavalry, together with the baggage and the foot soldiers handling it, a very great multitude.
    3: They encamped in the valley near Bethulia, beside the spring, and they spread out in breadth over Dothan as far as Balbaim and in length from Bethulia to Cyamon, which faces Esdraelon.
    4: When the Israelites saw their vast numbers they were greatly terrified, and every one said to his neighbor, "These men will now lick up the face of the whole land; neither the high mountains nor the valleys nor the hills will bear their weight."
    5: Then each man took up his weapons, and when they had kindled fires on their towers they remained on guard all that night.
    6: On the second day Holofernes led out all his cavalry in full view of the Israelites in Bethulia,
    7: and examined the approaches to the city, and visited the springs that supplied their water, and seized them and set guards of soldiers over them, and then returned to his army.
    8: Then all the chieftains of the people of Esau and all the leaders of the Moabites and the commanders of the coastland came to him and said,
    9: "Let our lord hear a word, lest his army be defeated.
    10: For these people, the Israelites, do not rely on their spears but on the height of the mountains where they live, for it is not easy to reach the tops of their mountains.
    11: Therefore, my lord, do not fight against them in battle array, and not a man of your army will fall.
    12: Remain in your camp, and keep all the men in your forces with you; only let your servants take possession of the spring of water that flows from the foot of the mountain --
    13: for this is where all the people of Bethulia get their water. So thirst will destroy them, and they will give up their city. We and our people will go up to the tops of the nearby mountains and camp there to keep watch that not a man gets out of the city.
    14: They and their wives and children will waste away with famine, and before the sword reaches them they will be strewn about in the streets where they live.
    15: So you will pay them back with evil, because they rebelled and did not receive you peaceably."
    16: These words pleased Holofernes and all his servants, and he gave orders to do as they had said.
    17: So the army of the Ammonites moved forward, together with five thousand Assyrians, and they encamped in the valley and seized the water supply and the springs of the Israelites.
    18: And the sons of Esau and the sons of Ammon went up and encamped in the hill country opposite Dothan; and they sent some of their men toward the south and the east, toward Acraba, which is near Chusi beside the brook Mochmur. The rest of the Assyrian army encamped in the plain, and covered the whole face of the land, and their tents and supply trains spread out in great number, and they formed a vast multitude.
    19: The people of Israel cried out to the Lord their God, for their courage failed, because all their enemies had surrounded them and there was no way of escape from them.
    20: The whole Assyrian army, their infantry, chariots, and cavalry, surrounded them for thirty-four days, until all the vessels of water belonging to every inhabitant of Bethulia were empty;
    21: their cisterns were going dry, and they did not have enough water to drink their fill for a single day, because it was measured out to them to drink.
    22: Their children lost heart, and the women and young men fainted from thirst and fell down in the streets of the city and in the passages through the gates; there was no strength left in them any longer.
    23: Then all the people, the young men, the women, and the children, gathered about Uzziah and the rulers of the city and cried out with a loud voice, and said before all the elders,
    24: "God be judge between you and us! For you have done us a great injury in not making peace with the Assyrians.
    25: For now we have no one to help us; God has sold us into their hands, to strew us on the ground before them with thirst and utter destruction.
    26: Now call them in and surrender the whole city to the army of Holofernes and to all his forces, to be plundered.
    27: For it would be better for us to be captured by them; for we will be slaves, but our lives will be spared, and we shall not witness the death of our babes before our eyes, or see our wives and children draw their last breath.
    28: We call to witness against you heaven and earth and our God, the Lord of our fathers, who punishes us according to our sins and the sins of our fathers. Let him not do this day the things which we have described!"
    29: Then great and general lamentation arose throughout the assembly, and they cried out to the Lord God with a loud voice.
    30: And Uzziah said to them, "Have courage, my brothers! Let us hold out for five more days; by that time the Lord our God will restore to us his mercy, for he will not forsake us utterly.
    31: But if these days pass by, and no help comes for us, I will do what you say."
    32: Then he dismissed the people to their various posts, and they went up on the walls and towers of their city. The women and children he sent home. And they were greatly depressed in the city.

  Chapter 8.

    1: At that time Judith heard about these things
    2: Her husband Manasseh, who belonged to her tribe and family, had died during the barley harvest.
    3: For as he stood overseeing the men who were binding sheaves in the field, he was overcome by the burning heat, and took to his bed and died in Bethulia his city. So they buried him with his fathers in the field between Dothan and Balamon.
    4: Judith had lived at home as a widow for three years and four months.
    5: She set up a tent for herself on the roof of her house, and girded sackcloth about her loins and wore the garments of her widowhood.
    6: She fasted all the days of her widowhood, except the day before the sabbath and the sabbath itself, the day before the new moon and the day of the new moon, and the feasts and days of rejoicing of the house of Israel.
    7: She was beautiful in appearance, and had a very lovely face; and her husband Manasseh had left her gold and silver, and men and women slaves, and cattle, and fields; and she maintained this estate.
    8: No one spoke ill of her, for she feared God with great devotion.
    9: When Judith heard the wicked words spoken by the people against the ruler, because they were faint for lack of water, and when she heard all that Uzziah said to them, and how he promised them under oath to surrender the city to the Assyrians after five days,
    10: she sent her maid, who was in charge of all she possessed, to summon Chabris and Charmis, the elders of her city.
    11: They came to her, and she said to them, "Listen to me, rulers of the people of Bethulia! What you have said to the people today is not right; you have even sworn and pronounced this oath between God and you, promising to surrender the city to our enemies unless the Lord turns and helps us within so many days.
    12: Who are you, that have put God to the test this day, and are setting yourselves up in the place of God among the sons of men?
    13: You are putting the Lord Almighty to the test -- but you will never know anything!
    14: You cannot plumb the depths of the human heart, nor find out what a man is thinking; how do you expect to search out God, who made all these things, and find out his mind or comprehend his thought? No, my brethren, do not provoke the Lord our God to anger.
    15: For if he does not choose to help us within these five days, he has power to protect us within any time he pleases, or even to destroy us in the presence of our enemies.
    16: Do not try to bind the purposes of the Lord our God; for God is not like man, to be threatened, nor like a human being, to be won over by pleading.
    17: Therefore, while we wait for his deliverance, let us call upon him to help us, and he will hear our voice, if it pleases him.
    18: "For never in our generation, nor in these present days, has there been any tribe or family or people or city of ours which worshiped gods made with hands, as was done in days gone by --
    19: and that was why our fathers were handed over to the sword, and to be plundered, and so they suffered a great catastrophe before our enemies.
    20: But we know no other god but him, and therefore we hope that he will not disdain us or any of our nation.
    21: For if we are captured all Judea will be captured and our sanctuary will be plundered; and he will exact of us the penalty for its desecration.
    22: And the slaughter of our brethren and the captivity of the land and the desolation of our inheritance -- all this he will bring upon our heads among the Gentiles, wherever we serve as slaves; and we shall be an offense and a reproach in the eyes of those who acquire us.
    23: For our slavery will not bring us into favor, but the Lord our God will turn it to dishonor.
    24: "Now therefore, brethren, let us set an example to our brethren, for their lives depend upon us, and the sanctuary and the temple and the altar rest upon us.
    25: In spite of everything let us give thanks to the Lord our God, who is putting us to the test as he did our forefathers.
    26: Remember what he did with Abraham, and how he tested Isaac, and what happened to Jacob in Mesopotamia in Syria, while he was keeping the sheep of Laban, his mother's brother.
    27: For he has not tried us with fire, as he did them, to search their hearts, nor has he taken revenge upon us; but the Lord scourges those who draw near to him, in order to admonish them."
    28: Then Uzziah said to her, "All that you have said has been spoken out of a true heart, and there is no one who can deny your words.
    29: Today is not the first time your wisdom has been shown, but from the beginning of your life all the people have recognized your understanding, for your heart's disposition is right.
    30: But the people were very thirsty, and they compelled us to do for them what we have promised, and made us take an oath which we cannot break.
    31: So pray for us, since you are a devout woman, and the Lord will send us rain to fill our cisterns and we will no longer be faint."
    32: Judith said to them, "Listen to me. I am about to do a thing which will go down through all generations of our descendants.
    33: Stand at the city gate tonight, and I will go out with my maid; and within the days after which you have promised to surrender the city to our enemies, the Lord will deliver Israel by my hand.
    34: Only, do not try to find out what I plan; for I will not tell you until I have finished what I am about to do."
    35: Uzziah and the rulers said to her, "Go in peace, and may the Lord God go before you, to take revenge upon our enemies."
    36: So they returned from the tent and went to their posts.

End of day 118.