Day 258:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: "When you allot the land as a possession, you shall set apart for the LORD a portion of the land as a holy district, twenty-five thousand cubits long and twenty thousand cubits broad; it shall be holy throughout its whole extent.
    2: Of this a square plot of five hundred by five hundred cubits shall be for the sanctuary, with fifty cubits for an open space around it.
    3: And in the holy district you shall measure off a section twenty-five thousand cubits long and ten thousand broad, in which shall be the sanctuary, the most holy place.
    4: It shall be the holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, who minister in the sanctuary and approach the LORD to minister to him; and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
    5: Another section, twenty-five thousand cubits long and ten thousand cubits broad, shall be for the Levites who minister at the temple, as their possession for cities to live in.
    6: "Alongside the portion set apart as the holy district you shall assign for the possession of the city an area five thousand cubits broad, and twenty-five thousand cubits long; it shall belong to the whole house of Israel.
    7: "And to the prince shall belong the land on both sides of the holy district and the property of the city, alongside the holy district and the property of the city, on the west and on the east, corresponding in length to one of the tribal portions, and extending from the western to the eastern boundary of the land.
    8: It is to be his property in Israel. And my princes shall no more oppress my people; but they shall let the house of Israel have the land according to their tribes.
    9: "Thus says the Lord GOD: Enough, O princes of Israel! Put away violence and oppression, and execute justice and righteousness; cease your evictions of my people, says the Lord GOD.
    10: "You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
    11: The ephah and the bath shall be of the same measure, the bath containing one tenth of a homer, and the ephah one tenth of a homer; the homer shall be the standard measure.
    12: The shekel shall be twenty gerahs; five shekels shall be five shekels, and ten shekels shall be ten shekels, and your mina shall be fifty shekels.
    13: "This is the offering which you shall make: one sixth of an ephah from each homer of wheat, and one sixth of an ephah from each homer of barley,
    14: and as the fixed portion of oil, one tenth of a bath from each cor (the cor, like the homer, contains ten baths);
    15: and one sheep from every flock of two hundred, from the families of Israel. This is the offering for cereal offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement for them, says the Lord GOD.
    16: All the people of the land shall give this offering to the prince in Israel.
    17: It shall be the prince's duty to furnish the burnt offerings, cereal offerings, and drink offerings, at the feasts, the new moons, and the sabbaths, all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall provide the sin offerings, cereal offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.
    18: "Thus says the Lord GOD: In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a young bull without blemish, and cleanse the sanctuary.
    19: The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it on the doorposts of the temple, the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the posts of the gate of the inner court.
    20: You shall do the same on the seventh day of the month for any one who has sinned through error or ignorance; so you shall make atonement for the temple.
    21: "In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall celebrate the feast of the passover, and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten.
    22: On that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a young bull for a sin offering.
    23: And on the seven days of the festival he shall provide as a burnt offering to the LORD seven young bulls and seven rams without blemish, on each of the seven days; and a he-goat daily for a sin offering.
    24: And he shall provide as a cereal offering an ephah for each bull, an ephah for each ram, and a hin of oil to each ephah.
    25: In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month and for the seven days of the feast, he shall make the same provision for sin offerings, burnt offerings, and cereal offerings, and for the oil.

  Chapter 46.

    1: "Thus says the Lord GOD: The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut on the six working days; but on the sabbath day it shall be opened and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
    2: The prince shall enter by the vestibule of the gate from without, and shall take his stand by the post of the gate. The priests shall offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening.
    3: The people of the land shall worship at the entrance of that gate before the LORD on the sabbaths and on the new moons.
    4: The burnt offering that the prince offers to the LORD on the sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish;
    5: and the cereal offering with the ram shall be an ephah, and the cereal offering with the lambs shall be as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
    6: On the day of the new moon he shall offer a young bull without blemish, and six lambs and a ram, which shall be without blemish;
    7: as a cereal offering he shall provide an ephah with the bull and an ephah with the ram, and with the lambs as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
    8: When the prince enters, he shall go in by the vestibule of the gate, and he shall go out by the same way.
    9: "When the people of the land come before the LORD at the appointed feasts, he who enters by the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate; and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate: no one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered, but each shall go out straight ahead.
    10: When they go in, the prince shall go in with them; and when they go out, he shall go out.
    11: "At the feasts and the appointed seasons the cereal offering with a young bull shall be an ephah, and with a ram an ephah, and with the lambs as much as one is able to give, together with a hin of oil to an ephah.
    12: When the prince provides a freewill offering, either a burnt offering or peace offerings as a freewill offering to the LORD, the gate facing east shall be opened for him; and he shall offer his burnt offering or his peace offerings as he does on the sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he has gone out the gate shall be shut.
    13: "He shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to the LORD daily; morning by morning he shall provide it.
    14: And he shall provide a cereal offering with it morning by morning, one sixth of an ephah, and one third of a hin of oil to moisten the flour, as a cereal offering to the LORD; this is the ordinance for the continual burnt offering.
    15: Thus the lamb and the meal offering and the oil shall be provided, morning by morning, for a continual burnt offering.
    16: "Thus says the Lord GOD: If the prince makes a gift to any of his sons out of his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons, it is their property by inheritance.
    17: But if he makes a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his to the year of liberty; then it shall revert to the prince; only his sons may keep a gift from his inheritance.
    18: The prince shall not take any of the inheritance of the people, thrusting them out of their property; he shall give his sons their inheritance out of his own property, so that none of my people shall be dispossessed of his property."
    19: Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate, to the north row of the holy chambers for the priests; and there I saw a place at the extreme western end of them.
    20: And he said to me, "This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the cereal offering, in order not to bring them out into the outer court and so communicate holiness to the people."
    21: Then he brought me forth to the outer court, and led me to the four corners of the court; and in each corner of the court there was a court --
    22: in the four corners of the court were small courts, forty cubits long and thirty broad; the four were of the same size.
    23: On the inside, around each of the four courts was a row of masonry, with hearths made at the bottom of the rows round about.
    24: Then he said to me, "These are the kitchens where those who minister at the temple shall boil the sacrifices of the people."

  Chapter 47.

    1: Then he brought me back to the door of the temple; and behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple toward the east (for the temple faced east); and the water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar.
    2: Then he brought me out by way of the north gate, and led me round on the outside to the outer gate, that faces toward the east; and the water was coming out on the south side.
    3: Going on eastward with a line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits, and then led me through the water; and it was ankle-deep.
    4: Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water; and it was knee-deep. Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water; and it was up to the loins.
    5: Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen; it was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.
    6: And he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen this?" Then he led me back along the bank of the river.
    7: As I went back, I saw upon the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other.
    8: And he said to me, "This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah; and when it enters the stagnant waters of the sea, the water will become fresh.
    9: And wherever the river goes every living creature which swarms will live, and there will be very many fish; for this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh; so everything will live where the river goes.
    10: Fishermen will stand beside the sea; from En-ge'di to En-eg'laim it will be a place for the spreading of nets; its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea.
    11: But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh; they are to be left for salt.
    12: And on the banks, on both sides of the river, there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing."
    13: Thus says the Lord GOD: "These are the boundaries by which you shall divide the land for inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions.
    14: And you shall divide it equally; I swore to give it to your fathers, and this land shall fall to you as your inheritance.
    15: "This shall be the boundary of the land: On the north side, from the Great Sea by way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, and on to Zedad,
    16: Bero'thah, Sib'raim (which lies on the border between Damascus and Hamath), as far as Hazer-hatticon, which is on the border of Hauran.
    17: So the boundary shall run from the sea to Hazar-e'non, which is on the northern border of Damascus, with the border of Hamath to the north. This shall be the north side.
    18: "On the east side, the boundary shall run from Hazar-e'non between Hauran and Damascus; along the Jordan between Gilead and the land of Israel; to the eastern sea and as far as Tamar. This shall be the east side.
    19: "On the south side, it shall run from Tamar as far as the waters of Meribath-ka'desh, thence along the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea. This shall be the south side.
    20: "On the west side, the Great Sea shall be the boundary to a point opposite the entrance of Hamath. This shall be the west side.
    21: "So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel.
    22: You shall allot it as an inheritance for yourselves and for the aliens who reside among you and have begotten children among you. They shall be to you as native-born sons of Israel; with you they shall be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
    23: In whatever tribe the alien resides, there you shall assign him his inheritance, says the Lord GOD. Ezek.48

  Chapter 48.

    1: "These are the names of the tribes: Beginning at the northern border, from the sea by way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, as far as Hazar-e'non (which is on the northern border of Damascus over against Hamath), and extending from the east side to the west, Dan, one portion.
    2: Adjoining the territory of Dan, from the east side to the west, Asher, one portion.
    3: Adjoining the territory of Asher, from the east side to the west, Naph'tali, one portion.
    4: Adjoining the territory of Naph'tali, from the east side to the west, Manas'seh, one portion.
    5: Adjoining the territory of Manas'seh, from the east side to the west, E'phraim, one portion.
    6: Adjoining the territory of E'phraim, from the east side to the west, Reuben, one portion.
    7: Adjoining the territory of Reuben, from the east side to the west, Judah, one portion.
    8: "Adjoining the territory of Judah, from the east side to the west, shall be the portion which you shall set apart, twenty-five thousand cubits in breadth, and in length equal to one of the tribal portions, from the east side to the west, with the sanctuary in the midst of it.
    9: The portion which you shall set apart for the LORD shall be twenty-five thousand cubits in length, and twenty thousand in breadth.
    10: These shall be the allotments of the holy portion: the priests shall have an allotment measuring twenty-five thousand cubits on the northern side, ten thousand cubits in breadth on the western side, ten thousand in breadth on the eastern side, and twenty-five thousand in length on the southern side, with the sanctuary of the LORD in the midst of it.
    11: This shall be for the consecrated priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept my charge, who did not go astray when the people of Israel went astray, as the Levites did.
    12: And it shall belong to them as a special portion from the holy portion of the land, a most holy place, adjoining the territory of the Levites.
    13: And alongside the territory of the priests, the Levites shall have an allotment twenty-five thousand cubits in length and ten thousand in breadth. The whole length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits and the breadth twenty thousand.
    14: They shall not sell or exchange any of it; they shall not alienate this choice portion of the land, for it is holy to the LORD.
    15: "The remainder, five thousand cubits in breadth and twenty-five thousand in length, shall be for ordinary use for the city, for dwellings and for open country. In the midst of it shall be the city;
    16: and these shall be its dimensions: the north side four thousand five hundred cubits, the south side four thousand five hundred, the east side four thousand five hundred, and the west side four thousand and five hundred.
    17: And the city shall have open land: on the north two hundred and fifty cubits, on the south two hundred and fifty, on the east two hundred and fifty, and on the west two hundred and fifty.
    18: The remainder of the length alongside the holy portion shall be ten thousand cubits to the east, and ten thousand to the west, and it shall be alongside the holy portion. Its produce shall be food for the workers of the city.
    19: And the workers of the city, from all the tribes of Israel, shall till it.
    20: The whole portion which you shall set apart shall be twenty-five thousand cubits square, that is, the holy portion together with the property of the city.
    21: "What remains on both sides of the holy portion and of the property of the city shall belong to the prince. Extending from the twenty-five thousand cubits of the holy portion to the east border, and westward from the twenty-five thousand cubits to the west border, parallel to the tribal portions, it shall belong to the prince. The holy portion with the sanctuary of the temple in its midst,
    22: and the property of the Levites and the property of the city, shall be in the midst of that which belongs to the prince. The portion of the prince shall lie between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin.
    23: "As for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west, Benjamin, one portion.
    24: Adjoining the territory of Benjamin, from the east side to the west, Simeon, one portion.
    25: Adjoining the territory of Simeon, from the east side to the west, Is'sachar, one portion.
    26: Adjoining the territory of Is'sachar, from the east side to the west, Zeb'ulun, one portion.
    27: Adjoining the territory of Zeb'ulun, from the east side to the west, Gad, one portion.
    28: And adjoining the territory of Gad to the south, the boundary shall run from Tamar to the waters of Meribath-ka'desh, thence along the Brook of Egypt to the Great Sea.
    29: This is the land which you shall allot as an inheritance among the tribes of Israel, and these are their several portions, says the Lord GOD.
    30: "These shall be the exits of the city: On the north side, which is to be four thousand five hundred cubits by measure,
    31: three gates, the gate of Reuben, the gate of Judah, and the gate of Levi, the gates of the city being named after the tribes of Israel.
    32: On the east side, which is to be four thousand five hundred cubits, three gates, the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, and the gate of Dan.
    33: On the south side, which is to be four thousand five hundred cubits by measure, three gates, the gate of Simeon, the gate of Is'sachar, and the gate of Zeb'ulun.
    34: On the west side, which is to be four thousand five hundred cubits, three gates, the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naph'tali.
    35: The circumference of the city shall be eighteen thousand cubits. And the name of the city henceforth shall be, The LORD is there."

End of day 258.