Day 76:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Now King David was old and advanced in years; and although they covered him with clothes, he could not get warm.
    2: Therefore his servants said to him, "Let a young maiden be sought for my lord the king, and let her wait upon the king, and be his nurse; let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may be warm."
    3: So they sought for a beautiful maiden throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Ab'ishag the Shu'nammite, and brought her to the king.
    4: The maiden was very beautiful; and she became the king's nurse and ministered to him; but the king knew her not.
    5: Now Adoni'jah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, "I will be king"; and he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
    6: His father had never at any time displeased him by asking, "Why have you done thus and so?" He was also a very handsome man; and he was born next after Ab'salom.
    7: He conferred with Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah and with Abi'athar the priest; and they followed Adoni'jah and helped him.
    8: But Zadok the priest, and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shim'e-i, and Re'i, and David's mighty men were not with Adoni'jah.
    9: Adoni'jah sacrificed sheep, oxen, and fatlings by the Serpent's Stone, which is beside En-ro'gel, and he invited all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the royal officials of Judah,
    10: but he did not invite Nathan the prophet or Benai'ah or the mighty men or Solomon his brother.
    11: Then Nathan said to Bathshe'ba the mother of Solomon, "Have you not heard that Adoni'jah the son of Haggith has become king and David our lord does not know it?
    12: Now therefore come, let me give you counsel, that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon.
    13: Go in at once to King David, and say to him, `Did you not, my lord the king, swear to your maidservant, saying, "Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne"? Why then is Adoni'jah king?'
    14: Then while you are still speaking with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words."
    15: So Bathshe'ba went to the king into his chamber (now the king was very old, and Ab'ishag the Shu'nammite was ministering to the king).
    16: Bathshe'ba bowed and did obeisance to the king, and the king said, "What do you desire?"
    17: She said to him, "My lord, you swore to your maidservant by the LORD your God, saying, `Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.'
    18: And now, behold, Adoni'jah is king, although you, my lord the king, do not know it.
    19: He has sacrificed oxen, fatlings, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the sons of the king, Abi'athar the priest, and Jo'ab the commander of the army; but Solomon your servant he has not invited.
    20: And now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
    21: Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon will be counted offenders."
    22: While she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
    23: And they told the king, "Here is Nathan the prophet." And when he came in before the king, he bowed before the king, with his face to the ground.
    24: And Nathan said, "My lord the king, have you said, `Adoni'jah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne'?
    25: For he has gone down this day, and has sacrificed oxen, fatlings, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king's sons, Jo'ab the commander of the army, and Abi'athar the priest; and behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and saying, `Long live King Adoni'jah!'
    26: But me, your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, and your servant Solomon, he has not invited.
    27: Has this thing been brought about by my lord the king and you have not told your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?"
    28: Then King David answered, "Call Bathshe'ba to me." So she came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.
    29: And the king swore, saying, "As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of every adversity,
    30: as I swore to you by the LORD, the God of Israel, saying, `Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead'; even so will I do this day."
    31: Then Bathshe'ba bowed with her face to the ground, and did obeisance to the king, and said, "May my lord King David live for ever!"
    32: King David said, "Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada." So they came before the king.
    33: And the king said to them, "Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon;
    34: and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet there anoint him king over Israel; then blow the trumpet, and say, `Long live King Solomon!'
    35: You shall then come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead; and I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah."
    36: And Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada answered the king, "Amen! May the LORD, the God of my lord the king, say so.
    37: As the LORD has been with my lord the king, even so may he be with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David."
    38: So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, and the Cher'ethites and the Pel'ethites, went down and caused Solomon to ride on King David's mule, and brought him to Gihon.
    39: There Zadok the priest took the horn of oil from the tent, and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the trumpet; and all the people said, "Long live King Solomon!"
    40: And all the people went up after him, playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth was split by their noise.
    41: Adoni'jah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished feasting. And when Jo'ab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, "What does this uproar in the city mean?"
    42: While he was still speaking, behold, Jonathan the son of Abi'athar the priest came; and Adoni'jah said, "Come in, for you are a worthy man and bring good news."
    43: Jonathan answered Adoni'jah, "No, for our lord King David has made Solomon king;
    44: and the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, and the Cher'ethites and the Pel'ethites; and they have caused him to ride on the king's mule;
    45: and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king at Gihon; and they have gone up from there rejoicing, so that the city is in an uproar. This is the noise that you have heard.
    46: Solomon sits upon the royal throne.
    47: Moreover the king's servants came to congratulate our lord King David, saying, `Your God make the name of Solomon more famous than yours, and make his throne greater than your throne.' And the king bowed himself upon the bed.
    48: And the king also said, `Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who has granted one of my offspring to sit on my throne this day, my own eyes seeing it.'"
    49: Then all the guests of Adoni'jah trembled, and rose, and each went his own way.
    50: And Adoni'jah feared Solomon; and he arose, and went, and caught hold of the horns of the altar.
    51: And it was told Solomon, "Behold, Adoni'jah fears King Solomon; for, lo, he has laid hold of the horns of the altar, saying, `Let King Solomon swear to me first that he will not slay his servant with the sword.'"
    52: And Solomon said, "If he prove to be a worthy man, not one of his hairs shall fall to the earth; but if wickedness is found in him, he shall die."
    53: So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and did obeisance to King Solomon; and Solomon said to him, "Go to your house."

  Chapter 2.

    1: When David's time to die drew near, he charged Solomon his son, saying,
    2: "I am about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong, and show yourself a man,
    3: and keep the charge of the LORD your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn;
    4: that the LORD may establish his word which he spoke concerning me, saying, `If your sons take heed to their way, to walk before me in faithfulness with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail you a man on the throne of Israel.'
    5: "Moreover you know also what Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah did to me, how he dealt with the two commanders of the armies of Israel, Abner the son of Ner, and Ama'sa the son of Jether, whom he murdered, avenging in time of peace blood which had been shed in war, and putting innocent blood upon the girdle about my loins, and upon the sandals on my feet.
    6: Act therefore according to your wisdom, but do not let his gray head go down to Sheol in peace.
    7: But deal loyally with the sons of Barzil'lai the Gileadite, and let them be among those who eat at your table; for with such loyalty they met me when I fled from Ab'salom your brother.
    8: And there is also with you Shim'e-i the son of Gera, the Benjaminite from Bahu'rim, who cursed me with a grievous curse on the day when I went to Mahana'im; but when he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore to him by the LORD, saying, `I will not put you to death with the sword.'
    9: Now therefore hold him not guiltless, for you are a wise man; you will know what you ought to do to him, and you shall bring his gray head down with blood to Sheol."
    10: Then David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David.
    11: And the time that David reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
    12: So Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom was firmly established.
    13: Then Adoni'jah the son of Haggith came to Bathshe'ba the mother of Solomon. And she said, "Do you come peaceably?" He said, "Peaceably."
    14: Then he said, "I have something to say to you." She said, "Say on."
    15: He said, "You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel fully expected me to reign; however the kingdom has turned about and become my brother's, for it was his from the LORD.
    16: And now I have one request to make of you; do not refuse me." She said to him, "Say on."
    17: And he said, "Pray ask King Solomon -- he will not refuse you -- to give me Ab'ishag the Shu'nammite as my wife."
    18: Bathshe'ba said, "Very well; I will speak for you to the king."
    19: So Bathshe'ba went to King Solomon, to speak to him on behalf of Adoni'jah. And the king rose to meet her, and bowed down to her; then he sat on his throne, and had a seat brought for the king's mother; and she sat on his right.
    20: Then she said, "I have one small request to make of you; do not refuse me." And the king said to her, "Make your request, my mother; for I will not refuse you."
    21: She said, "Let Ab'ishag the Shu'nammite be given to Adoni'jah your brother as his wife."
    22: King Solomon answered his mother, "And why do you ask Ab'ishag the Shu'nammite for Adoni'jah? Ask for him the kingdom also; for he is my elder brother, and on his side are Abi'athar the priest and Jo'ab the son of Zeru'iah."
    23: Then King Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, "God do so to me and more also if this word does not cost Adoni'jah his life!
    24: Now therefore as the LORD lives, who has established me, and placed me on the throne of David my father, and who has made me a house, as he promised, Adoni'jah shall be put to death this day."
    25: So King Solomon sent Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada; and he struck him down, and he died.
    26: And to Abi'athar the priest the king said, "Go to An'athoth, to your estate; for you deserve death. But I will not at this time put you to death, because you bore the ark of the Lord GOD before David my father, and because you shared in all the affliction of my father."
    27: So Solomon expelled Abi'athar from being priest to the LORD, thus fulfilling the word of the LORD which he had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
    28: When the news came to Jo'ab -- for Jo'ab had supported Adoni'jah although he had not supported Ab'salom -- Jo'ab fled to the tent of the LORD and caught hold of the horns of the altar.
    29: And when it was told King Solomon, "Jo'ab has fled to the tent of the LORD, and behold, he is beside the altar," Solomon sent Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada, saying, "Go, strike him down."
    30: So Benai'ah came to the tent of the LORD, and said to him, "The king commands, `Come forth.'" But he said, "No, I will die here." Then Benai'ah brought the king word again, saying, "Thus said Jo'ab, and thus he answered me."
    31: The king replied to him, "Do as he has said, strike him down and bury him; and thus take away from me and from my father's house the guilt for the blood which Jo'ab shed without cause.
    32: The LORD will bring back his bloody deeds upon his own head, because, without the knowledge of my father David, he attacked and slew with the sword two men more righteous and better than himself, Abner the son of Ner, commander of the army of Israel, and Ama'sa the son of Jether, commander of the army of Judah.
    33: So shall their blood come back upon the head of Jo'ab and upon the head of his descendants for ever; but to David, and to his descendants, and to his house, and to his throne, there shall be peace from the LORD for evermore."
    34: Then Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada went up, and struck him down and killed him; and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.
    35: The king put Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada over the army in place of Jo'ab, and the king put Zadok the priest in the place of Abi'athar.
    36: Then the king sent and summoned Shim'e-i, and said to him, "Build yourself a house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and do not go forth from there to any place whatever.
    37: For on the day you go forth, and cross the brook Kidron, know for certain that you shall die; your blood shall be upon your own head."
    38: And Shim'e-i said to the king, "What you say is good; as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do." So Shim'e-i dwelt in Jerusalem many days.
    39: But it happened at the end of three years that two of Shim'e-i's slaves ran away to Achish, son of Ma'acah, king of Gath. And when it was told Shim'e-i, "Behold, your slaves are in Gath,"
    40: Shim'e-i arose and saddled an ass, and went to Gath to Achish, to seek his slaves; Shim'e-i went and brought his slaves from Gath.
    41: And when Solomon was told that Shim'e-i had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and returned,
    42: the king sent and summoned Shim'e-i, and said to him, "Did I not make you swear by the LORD, and solemnly admonish you, saying, `Know for certain that on the day you go forth and go to any place whatever, you shall die'? And you said to me, `What you say is good; I obey.'
    43: Why then have you not kept your oath to the LORD and the commandment with which I charged you?"
    44: The king also said to Shim'e-i, "You know in your own heart all the evil that you did to David my father; so the LORD will bring back your evil upon your own head.
    45: But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD for ever."
    46: Then the king commanded Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada; and he went out and struck him down, and he died. So the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Solomon made a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt; he took Pharaoh's daughter, and brought her into the city of David, until he had finished building his own house and the house of the LORD and the wall around Jerusalem.
    2: The people were sacrificing at the high places, however, because no house had yet been built for the name of the LORD.
    3: Solomon loved the LORD, walking in the statutes of David his father; only, he sacrificed and burnt incense at the high places.
    4: And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place; Solomon used to offer a thousand burnt offerings upon that altar.
    5: At Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, "Ask what I shall give you."
    6: And Solomon said, "Thou hast shown great and steadfast love to thy servant David my father, because he walked before thee in faithfulness, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart toward thee; and thou hast kept for him this great and steadfast love, and hast given him a son to sit on his throne this day.
    7: And now, O LORD my God, thou hast made thy servant king in place of David my father, although I am but a little child; I do not know how to go out or come in.
    8: And thy servant is in the midst of thy people whom thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered or counted for multitude.
    9: Give thy servant therefore an understanding mind to govern thy people, that I may discern between good and evil; for who is able to govern this thy great people?"
    10: It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this.
    11: And God said to him, "Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right,
    12: behold, I now do according to your word. Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you.
    13: I give you also what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that no other king shall compare with you, all your days.
    14: And if you will walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and my commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days."
    15: And Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. Then he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants.
    16: Then two harlots came to the king, and stood before him.
    17: The one woman said, "Oh, my lord, this woman and I dwell in the same house; and I gave birth to a child while she was in the house.
    18: Then on the third day after I was delivered, this woman also gave birth; and we were alone; there was no one else with us in the house, only we two were in the house.
    19: And this woman's son died in the night, because she lay on it.
    20: And she arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while your maidservant slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid her dead son in my bosom.
    21: When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, it was dead; but when I looked at it closely in the morning, behold, it was not the child that I had borne."
    22: But the other woman said, "No, the living child is mine, and the dead child is yours." The first said, "No, the dead child is yours, and the living child is mine." Thus they spoke before the king.
    23: Then the king said, "The one says, `This is my son that is alive, and your son is dead'; and the other says, `No; but your son is dead, and my son is the living one.'"
    24: And the king said, "Bring me a sword." So a sword was brought before the king.
    25: And the king said, "Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other."
    26: Then the woman whose son was alive said to the king, because her heart yearned for her son, "Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and by no means slay it." But the other said, "It shall be neither mine nor yours; divide it."
    27: Then the king answered and said, "Give the living child to the first woman, and by no means slay it; she is its mother."
    28: And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had rendered; and they stood in awe of the king, because they perceived that the wisdom of God was in him, to render justice.

  Chapter 4.

    1: King Solomon was king over all Israel,
    2: and these were his high officials: Azari'ah the son of Zadok was the priest;
    3: Elihor'eph and Ahi'jah the sons of Shisha were secretaries; Jehosh'aphat the son of Ahi'lud was recorder;
    4: Benai'ah the son of Jehoi'ada was in command of the army; Zadok and Abi'athar were priests;
    5: Azari'ah the son of Nathan was over the officers; Zabud the son of Nathan was priest and king's friend;
    6: Ahi'shar was in charge of the palace; and Adoni'ram the son of Abda was in charge of the forced labor.
    7: Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided food for the king and his household; each man had to make provision for one month in the year.
    8: These were their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of E'phraim;
    9: Ben-deker, in Makaz, Sha-al'bim, Beth-she'mesh, and E'lonbeth-ha'nan;
    10: Ben-hesed, in Arub'both (to him belonged Socoh and all the land of Hepher);
    11: Ben-abin'adab, in all Naphath-dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
    12: Ba'ana the son of Ahi'lud, in Ta'anach, Megid'do, and all Beth-she'an which is beside Zarethan below Jezreel, and from Beth-she'an to A'bel-meho'lah, as far as the other side of Jok'meam;
    13: Ben-geber, in Ra'moth-gil'ead (he had the villages of Ja'ir the son of Manas'seh, which are in Gilead, and he had the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);
    14: Ahin'adab the son of Iddo, in Mahana'im;
    15: Ahi'ma-az, in Naph'tali (he had taken Bas'emath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
    16: Ba'ana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
    17: Jehosh'aphat the son of Paru'ah, in Is'sachar;
    18: Shim'e-i the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
    19: Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan. And there was one officer in the land of Judah.
    20: Judah and Israel were as many as the sand by the sea; they ate and drank and were happy.
    21: Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the Euphra'tes to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt; they brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life.
    22: Solomon's provision for one day was thirty cors of fine flour, and sixty cors of meal,
    23: ten fat oxen, and twenty pasture-fed cattle, a hundred sheep, besides harts, gazelles, roebucks, and fatted fowl.
    24: For he had dominion over all the region west of the Euphra'tes from Tiphsah to Gaza, over all the kings west of the Euphra'tes; and he had peace on all sides round about him.
    25: And Judah and Israel dwelt in safety, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, all the days of Solomon.
    26: Solomon also had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
    27: And those officers supplied provisions for King Solomon, and for all who came to King Solomon's table, each one in his month; they let nothing be lacking.
    28: Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds they brought to the place where it was required, each according to his charge.
    29: And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding beyond measure, and largeness of mind like the sand on the seashore,
    30: so that Solomon's wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the people of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
    31: For he was wiser than all other men, wiser than Ethan the Ez'rahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was in all the nations round about.
    32: He also uttered three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five.
    33: He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that grows out of the wall; he spoke also of beasts, and of birds, and of reptiles, and of fish.
    34: And men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.

End of day 76.