Day 355:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals;
    2: and I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?"
    3: And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it,
    4: and I wept much that no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to into into it.
    5: Then one of the elders said to me, "Weep not; lo, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals."
    6: And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders, I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth;
    7: and he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne.
    8: And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and with golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints;
    9: and they sang a new song, saying, "Worthy art thou to take the scroll and to open its seals, for thou wast slain and by thy blood didst ransom men for God from every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
    10: and hast made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on earth."
    11: Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
    12: saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!"
    13: And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all therein, saying, "To him who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might for ever and ever!"
    14: And the four living creatures said, "Amen!" and the elders fell down and worshiped.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Now I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say, as with a voice of thunder, "Come!"
    2: And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and its rider had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to conquer.
    3: When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come!"
    4: And out came another horse, bright red; its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that men should slay one another; and he was given a great sword.
    5: When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, "Come!" And I saw, and behold, a black horse, and its rider had a balance in his hand;
    6: and I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, "A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius; but do not harm oil and wine!"
    7: When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, "Come!"
    8: And I saw, and behold, a pale horse, and its rider's name was Death, and Hades followed him; and they were given power over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by wild beasts of the earth.
    9: When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne;
    10: they cried out with a loud voice, "O Sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before thou wilt judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell upon the earth?"
    11: Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brethren should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.
    12: When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth, the full moon became like blood,
    13: and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale;
    14: the sky vanished like a scroll that is rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place.
    15: Then the kings of the earth and the great men and the generals and the rich and the strong, and every one, slave and free, hid in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains,
    16: calling to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb;
    17: for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand before it?"

  Chapter 7.

    1: After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree.
    2: Then I saw another angel ascend from the rising of the sun, with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea,
    3: saying, "Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God upon their foreheads."
    4: And I heard the number of the sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand sealed, out of every tribe of the sons of Israel,
    5: twelve thousand sealed out of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand of the tribe of Gad,
    6: twelve thousand of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand of the tribe of Naph'tali, twelve thousand of the tribe of Manas'seh,
    7: twelve thousand of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand of the tribe of Is'sachar,
    8: twelve thousand of the tribe of Zeb'ulun, twelve thousand of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand sealed out of the tribe of Benjamin.
    9: After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no man could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands,
    10: and crying out with a loud voice, "Salvation belongs to our God who sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb!"
    11: And all the angels stood round the throne and round the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,
    12: saying, "Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God for ever and ever! Amen."
    13: Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, "Who are these, clothed in white robes, and whence have they come?"
    14: I said to him, "Sir, you know." And he said to me, "These are they who have come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
    15: Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night within his temple; and he who sits upon the throne will shelter them with his presence.
    16: They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat.
    17: For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes."

  Chapter 8.

    1: When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
    2: Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
    3: And another angel came and stood at the altar with a golden censer; and he was given much incense to mingle with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar before the throne;
    4: and the smoke of the incense rose with the prayers of the saints from the hand of the angel before God.
    5: Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it on the earth; and there were peals of thunder, voices, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.
    6: Now the seven angels who had the seven trumpets made ready to blow them.
    7: The first angel blew his trumpet, and there followed hail and fire, mixed with blood, which fell on the earth; and a third of the earth was burnt up, and a third of the trees were burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
    8: The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into the sea;
    9: and a third of the sea became blood, a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.
    10: The third angel blew his trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, blazing like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the fountains of water.
    11: The name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died of the water, because it was made bitter.
    12: The fourth angel blew his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of their light was darkened; a third of the day was kept from shining, and likewise a third of the night.
    13: Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice, as it flew in midheaven, "Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth, at the blasts of the other trumpets which the three angels are about to blow!"

End of day 355.