Day 21:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: "Now this is what you shall do to them to consecrate them, that they may serve me as priests. Take one young bull and two rams without blemish,
    2: and unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil. You shall make them of fine wheat flour.
    3: And you shall put them in one basket and bring them in the basket, and bring the bull and the two rams.
    4: You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and wash them with water.
    5: And you shall take the garments, and put on Aaron the coat and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastpiece, and gird him with the skilfully woven band of the ephod;
    6: and you shall set the turban on his head, and put the holy crown upon the turban.
    7: And you shall take the anointing oil, and pour it on his head and anoint him.
    8: Then you shall bring his sons, and put coats on them,
    9: and you shall gird them with girdles and bind caps on them; and the priesthood shall be theirs by a perpetual statute. Thus you shall ordain Aaron and his sons.
    10: "Then you shall bring the bull before the tent of meeting. Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the bull,
    11: and you shall kill the bull before the LORD, at the door of the tent of meeting,
    12: and shall take part of the blood of the bull and put it upon the horns of the altar with your finger, and the rest of the blood you shall pour out at the base of the altar.
    13: And you shall take all the fat that covers the entrails, and the appendage of the liver, and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, and burn them upon the altar.
    14: But the flesh of the bull, and its skin, and its dung, you shall burn with fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering.
    15: "Then you shall take one of the rams, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram,
    16: and you shall slaughter the ram, and shall take its blood and throw it against the altar round about.
    17: Then you shall cut the ram into pieces, and wash its entrails and its legs, and put them with its pieces and its head,
    18: and burn the whole ram upon the altar; it is a burnt offering to the LORD; it is a pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the LORD.
    19: "You shall take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram,
    20: and you shall kill the ram, and take part of its blood and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron and upon the tips of the right ears of his sons, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet, and throw the rest of the blood against the altar round about.
    21: Then you shall take part of the blood that is on the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron and his garments, and upon his sons and his sons' garments with him; and he and his garments shall be holy, and his sons and his sons' garments with him.
    22: "You shall also take the fat of the ram, and the fat tail, and the fat that covers the entrails, and the appendage of the liver, and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of ordination),
    23: and one loaf of bread, and one cake of bread with oil, and one wafer, out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before the LORD;
    24: and you shall put all these in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
    25: Then you shall take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar in addition to the burnt offering, as a pleasing odor before the LORD; it is an offering by fire to the LORD.
    26: "And you shall take the breast of the ram of Aaron's ordination and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD; and it shall be your portion.
    27: And you shall consecrate the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the priests' portion, which is waved, and which is offered from the ram of ordination, since it is for Aaron and for his sons.
    28: It shall be for Aaron and his sons as a perpetual due from the people of Israel, for it is the priests' portion to be offered by the people of Israel from their peace offerings; it is their offering to the LORD.
    29: "The holy garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them and ordained in them.
    30: The son who is priest in his place shall wear them seven days, when he comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place.
    31: "You shall take the ram of ordination, and boil its flesh in a holy place;
    32: and Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of meeting.
    33: They shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to ordain and consecrate them, but an outsider shall not eat of them, because they are holy.
    34: And if any of the flesh for the ordination, or of the bread, remain until the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire; it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
    35: "Thus you shall do to Aaron and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded you; through seven days shall you ordain them,
    36: and every day you shall offer a bull as a sin offering for atonement. Also you shall offer a sin offering for the altar, when you make atonement for it, and shall anoint it, to consecrate it.
    37: Seven days you shall make atonement for the altar, and consecrate it, and the altar shall be most holy; whatever touches the altar shall become holy.
    38: "Now this is what you shall offer upon the altar: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
    39: One lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer in the evening;
    40: and with the first lamb a tenth measure of fine flour mingled with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil, and a fourth of a hin of wine for a libation.
    41: And the other lamb you shall offer in the evening, and shall offer with it a cereal offering and its libation, as in the morning, for a pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the LORD.
    42: It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before the LORD, where I will meet with you, to speak there to you.
    43: There I will meet with the people of Israel, and it shall be sanctified by my glory;
    44: I will consecrate the tent of meeting and the altar; Aaron also and his sons I will consecrate, to serve me as priests.
    45: And I will dwell among the people of Israel, and will be their God.
    46: And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt that I might dwell among them; I am the LORD their God.

  Chapter 30.

    1: "You shall make an altar to burn incense upon; of acacia wood shall you make it.
    2: A cubit shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth; it shall be square, and two cubits shall be its height; its horns shall be of one piece with it.
    3: And you shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and its sides round about and its horns; and you shall make for it a molding of gold round about.
    4: And two golden rings shall you make for it; under its molding on two opposite sides of it shall you make them, and they shall be holders for poles with which to carry it.
    5: You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
    6: And you shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you.
    7: And Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it; every morning when he dresses the lamps he shall burn it,
    8: and when Aaron sets up the lamps in the evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.
    9: You shall offer no unholy incense thereon, nor burnt offering, nor cereal offering; and you shall pour no libation thereon.
    10: Aaron shall make atonement upon its horns once a year; with the blood of the sin offering of atonement he shall make atonement for it once in the year throughout your generations; it is most holy to the LORD."
    11: The LORD said to Moses,
    12: "When you take the census of the people of Israel, then each shall give a ransom for himself to the LORD when you number them, that there be no plague among them when you number them.
    13: Each who is numbered in the census shall give this: half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is twenty gerahs), half a shekel as an offering to the LORD.
    14: Every one who is numbered in the census, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the LORD's offering.
    15: The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when you give the LORD's offering to make atonement for yourselves.
    16: And you shall take the atonement money from the people of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the tent of meeting; that it may bring the people of Israel to remembrance before the LORD, so as to make atonement for yourselves."
    17: The LORD said to Moses,
    18: "You shall also make a laver of bronze, with its base of bronze, for washing. And you shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it,
    19: with which Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet.
    20: When they go into the tent of meeting, or when they come near the altar to minister, to burn an offering by fire to the LORD, they shall wash with water, lest they die.
    21: They shall wash their hands and their feet, lest they die: it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to his descendants throughout their generations."
    22: Moreover, the LORD said to Moses,
    23: "Take the finest spices: of liquid myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet-smelling cinnamon half as much, that is, two hundred and fifty, and of aromatic cane two hundred and fifty,
    24: and of cassia five hundred, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin;
    25: and you shall make of these a sacred anointing oil blended as by the perfumer; a holy anointing oil it shall be.
    26: And you shall anoint with it the tent of meeting and the ark of the testimony,
    27: and the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense,
    28: and the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils and the laver and its base;
    29: you shall consecrate them, that they may be most holy; whatever touches them will become holy.
    30: And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may serve me as priests.
    31: And you shall say to the people of Israel, `This shall be my holy anointing oil throughout your generations.
    32: It shall not be poured upon the bodies of ordinary men, and you shall make no other like it in composition; it is holy, and it shall be holy to you.
    33: Whoever compounds any like it or whoever puts any of it on an outsider shall be cut off from his people.'"
    34: And the LORD said to Moses, "Take sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense (of each shall there be an equal part),
    35: and make an incense blended as by the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy;
    36: and you shall beat some of it very small, and put part of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting where I shall meet with you; it shall be for you most holy.
    37: And the incense which you shall make according to its composition, you shall not make for yourselves; it shall be for you holy to the LORD.
    38: Whoever makes any like it to use as perfume shall be cut off from his people."

  Chapter 31.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "See, I have called by name Bez'alel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
    3: and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with ability and intelligence, with knowledge and all craftsmanship,
    4: to devise artistic designs, to work in gold, silver, and bronze,
    5: in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, for work in every craft.
    6: And behold, I have appointed with him Oho'liab, the son of Ahis'amach, of the tribe of Dan; and I have given to all able men ability, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
    7: the tent of meeting, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereon, and all the furnishings of the tent,
    8: the table and its utensils, and the pure lampstand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense,
    9: and the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver and its base,
    10: and the finely worked garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons, for their service as priests,
    11: and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense for the holy place. According to all that I have commanded you they shall do."
    12: And the LORD said to Moses,
    13: "Say to the people of Israel, `You shall keep my sabbaths, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the LORD, sanctify you.
    14: You shall keep the sabbath, because it is holy for you; every one who profanes it shall be put to death; whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
    15: Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the LORD; whoever does any work on the sabbath day shall be put to death.
    16: Therefore the people of Israel shall keep the sabbath, observing the sabbath throughout their generations, as a perpetual covenant.
    17: It is a sign for ever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.'"
    18: And he gave to Moses, when he had made an end of speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, the two tables of the testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God.

  Chapter 32.

    1: When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aaron, and said to him, "Up, make us gods, who shall go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him."
    2: And Aaron said to them, "Take off the rings of gold which are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me."
    3: So all the people took off the rings of gold which were in their ears, and brought them to Aaron.
    4: And he received the gold at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, and made a molten calf; and they said, "These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!"
    5: When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation and said, "Tomorrow shall be a feast to the LORD."
    6: And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.
    7: And the LORD said to Moses, "Go down; for your people, whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves;
    8: they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them; they have made for themselves a molten calf, and have worshiped it and sacrificed to it, and said, `These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!'"
    9: And the LORD said to Moses, "I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people;
    10: now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may burn hot against them and I may consume them; but of you I will make a great nation."
    11: But Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, "O LORD, why does thy wrath burn hot against thy people, whom thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand?
    12: Why should the Egyptians say, `With evil intent did he bring them forth, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth'? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against thy people.
    13: Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou didst swear by thine own self, and didst say to them, `I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have promised I will give to your descendants, and they shall inherit it for ever.'"
    14: And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do to his people.
    15: And Moses turned, and went down from the mountain with the two tables of the testimony in his hands, tables that were written on both sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.
    16: And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, graven upon the tables.
    17: When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, "There is a noise of war in the camp."
    18: But he said, "It is not the sound of shouting for victory, or the sound of the cry of defeat, but the sound of singing that I hear."
    19: And as soon as he came near the camp and saw the calf and the dancing, Moses' anger burned hot, and he threw the tables out of his hands and broke them at the foot of the mountain.
    20: And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it with fire, and ground it to powder, and scattered it upon the water, and made the people of Israel drink it.
    21: And Moses said to Aaron, "What did this people do to you that you have brought a great sin upon them?"
    22: And Aaron said, "Let not the anger of my lord burn hot; you know the people, that they are set on evil.
    23: For they said to me, `Make us gods, who shall go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.'
    24: And I said to them, `Let any who have gold take it off'; so they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and there came out this calf."
    25: And when Moses saw that the people had broken loose (for Aaron had let them break loose, to their shame among their enemies),
    26: then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, "Who is on the LORD's side? Come to me." And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him.
    27: And he said to them, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel, `Put every man his sword on his side, and go to and fro from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor.'"
    28: And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses; and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
    29: And Moses said, "Today you have ordained yourselves for the service of the LORD, each one at the cost of his son and of his brother, that he may bestow a blessing upon you this day."
    30: On the morrow Moses said to the people, "You have sinned a great sin. And now I will go up to the LORD; perhaps I can make atonement for your sin."
    31: So Moses returned to the LORD and said, "Alas, this people have sinned a great sin; they have made for themselves gods of gold.
    32: But now, if thou wilt forgive their sin -- and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written."
    33: But the LORD said to Moses, "Whoever has sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.
    34: But now go, lead the people to the place of which I have spoken to you; behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them."
    35: And the LORD sent a plague upon the people, because they made the calf which Aaron made.

End of day 21.