Day 289:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Beth'phage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
    2: saying to them, "Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find an ass tied, and a colt with her; untie them and bring them to me.
    3: If any one says anything to you, you shall say, `The Lord has need of them,' and he will send them immediately."
    4: This took place to fulfil what was spoken by the prophet, saying,
    5: "Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on an ass, and on a colt, the foal of an ass."
    6: The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them;
    7: they brought the ass and the colt, and put their garments on them, and he sat thereon.
    8: Most of the crowd spread their garments on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
    9: And the crowds that went before him and that followed him shouted, "Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!"
    10: And when he entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, "Who is this?"
    11: And the crowds said, "This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee."
    12: And Jesus entered the temple of God and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons.
    13: He said to them, "It is written, `My house shall be called a house of prayer'; but you make it a den of robbers."
    14: And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
    15: But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, "Hosanna to the Son of David!" they were indignant;
    16: and they said to him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" And Jesus said to them, "Yes; have you never read, `Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast brought perfect praise'?"
    17: And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there.
    18: In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he was hungry.
    19: And seeing a fig tree by the wayside he went to it, and found nothing on it but leaves only. And he said to it, "May no fruit ever come from you again!" And the fig tree withered at once.
    20: When the disciples saw it they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree wither at once?"
    21: And Jesus answered them, "Truly, I say to you, if you have faith and never doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, `Be taken up and cast into the sea,' it will be done.
    22: And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive, if you have faith."
    23: And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching, and said, "By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority?"
    24: Jesus answered them, "I also will ask you a question; and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
    25: The baptism of John, whence was it? From heaven or from men?" And they argued with one another, "If we say, `From heaven,' he will say to us, `Why then did you not believe him?'
    26: But if we say, `From men,' we are afraid of the multitude; for all hold that John was a prophet."
    27: So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And he said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
    28: "What do you think? A man had two sons; and he went to the first and said, `Son, go and work in the vineyard today.'
    29: And he answered, `I will not'; but afterward he repented and went.
    30: And he went to the second and said the same; and he answered, `I go, sir,' but did not go.
    31: Which of the two did the will of his father?" They said, "The first." Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.
    32: For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him; and even when you saw it, you did not afterward repent and believe him.
    33: "Hear another parable. There was a householder who planted a vineyard, and set a hedge around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and let it out to tenants, and went into another country.
    34: When the season of fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants, to get his fruit;
    35: and the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another.
    36: Again he sent other servants, more than the first; and they did the same to them.
    37: Afterward he sent his son to them, saying, `They will respect my son.'
    38: But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, `This is the heir; come, let us kill him and have his inheritance.'
    39: And they took him and cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him.
    40: When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?"
    41: They said to him, "He will put those wretches to a miserable death, and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons."
    42: Jesus said to them, "Have you never read in the scriptures: `The very stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner; this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?
    43: Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a nation producing the fruits of it."
    44: When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them.
    45: But when they tried to arrest him, they feared the multitudes, because they held him to be a prophet.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying,
    2: "The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a marriage feast for his son,
    3: and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast; but they would not come.
    4: Again he sent other servants, saying, `Tell those who are invited, Behold, I have made ready my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves are killed, and everything is ready; come to the marriage feast.'
    5: But they made light of it and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,
    6: while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
    7: The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
    8: Then he said to his servants, `The wedding is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
    9: Go therefore to the thoroughfares, and invite to the marriage feast as many as you find.'
    10: And those servants went out into the streets and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good; so the wedding hall was filled with guests.
    11: "But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment;
    12: and he said to him, `Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?' And he was speechless.
    13: Then the king said to the attendants, `Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness; there men will weep and gnash their teeth.'
    14: For many are called, but few are chosen."
    15: Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how to entangle him in his talk.
    16: And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Hero'di-ans, saying, "Teacher, we know that you are true, and teach the way of God truthfully, and care for no man; for you do not regard the position of men.
    17: Tell us, then, what you think. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"
    18: But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, "Why put me to the test, you hypocrites?
    19: Show me the money for the tax." And they brought him a coin.
    20: And Jesus said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?"
    21: They said, "Caesar's." Then he said to them, "Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
    22: When they heard it, they marveled; and they left him and went away.
    23: The same day Sad'ducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection; and they asked him a question,
    24: saying, "Teacher, Moses said, `If a man dies, having no children, his brother must marry the widow, and raise up children for his brother.'
    25: Now there were seven brothers among us; the first married, and died, and having no children left his wife to his brother.
    26: So too the second and third, down to the seventh.
    27: After them all, the woman died.
    28: In the resurrection, therefore, to which of the seven will she be wife? For they all had her."
    29: But Jesus answered them, "You are wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God.
    30: For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
    31: And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God,
    32: `I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'? He is not God of the dead, but of the living."
    33: And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
    34: But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sad'ducees, they came together.
    35: And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, to test him.
    36: "Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?"
    37: And he said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.
    38: This is the great and first commandment.
    39: And a second is like it, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
    40: On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets."
    41: Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
    42: saying, "What do you think of the Christ? Whose son is he?" They said to him, "The son of David."
    43: He said to them, "How is it then that David, inspired by the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying,
    44: `The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I put thy enemies under thy feet'?
    45: If David thus calls him Lord, how is he his son?"
    46: And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did any one dare to ask him any more questions.

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then said Jesus to the crowds and to his disciples,
    2: "The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat;
    3: so practice and observe whatever they tell you, but not what they do; for they preach, but do not practice.
    4: They bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with their finger.
    5: They do all their deeds to be seen by men; for they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long,
    6: and they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues,
    7: and salutations in the market places, and being called rabbi by men.
    8: But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brethren.
    9: And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
    10: Neither be called masters, for you have one master, the Christ.
    11: He who is greatest among you shall be your servant;
    12: whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
    13: "But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because you shut the kingdom of heaven against men; for you neither enter yourselves, nor allow those who would enter to go in.
    14: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you traverse sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.
    15: "Woe to you, blind guides, who say, `If any one swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if any one swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.'
    16: You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?
    17: And you say, `If any one swears by the altar, it is nothing; but if any one swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath.'
    18: You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?
    19: So he who swears by the altar, swears by it and by everything on it;
    20: and he who swears by the temple, swears by it and by him who dwells in it;
    21: and he who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it.
    22: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you tithe mint and dill and cummin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith; these you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
    23: You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
    24: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you cleanse the outside of the cup and of the plate, but inside they are full of extortion and rapacity.
    25: You blind Pharisee! first cleanse the inside of the cup and of the plate, that the outside also may be clean.
    26: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within they are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.
    27: So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but within you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
    28: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
    29: saying, `If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.'
    30: Thus you witness against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets.
    31: Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
    32: You serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell?
    33: Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from town to town,
    34: that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of innocent Abel to the blood of Zechari'ah the son of Barachi'ah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar.
    35: Truly, I say to you, all this will come upon this generation.
    36: "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, killing the prophets and stoning those who are sent to you! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!
    37: Behold, your house is forsaken and desolate.
    38: For I tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, `Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'"

  Chapter 24.

    1: Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple.
    2: But he answered them, "You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another, that will not be thrown down."
    3: As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, "Tell us, when will this be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?"
    4: And Jesus answered them, "Take heed that no one leads you astray.
    5: For many will come in my name, saying, `I am the Christ,' and they will lead many astray.
    6: And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars; see that you are not alarmed; for this must take place, but the end is not yet.
    7: For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places:
    8: all this is but the beginning of the birth-pangs.
    9: "Then they will deliver you up to tribulation, and put you to death; and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake.
    10: And then many will fall away, and betray one another, and hate one another.
    11: And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray.
    12: And because wickedness is multiplied, most men's love will grow cold.
    13: But he who endures to the end will be saved.
    14: And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the whole world, as a testimony to all nations; and then the end will come.
    15: "So when you see the desolating sacrilege spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand),
    16: then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
    17: let him who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house;
    18: and let him who is in the field not turn back to take his mantle.
    19: And alas for those who are with child and for those who give suck in those days!
    20: Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a sabbath.
    21: For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be.
    22: And if those days had not been shortened, no human being would be saved; but for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened.
    23: Then if any one says to you, `Lo, here is the Christ!' or `There he is!' do not believe it.
    24: For false Christs and false prophets will arise and show great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
    25: Lo, I have told you beforehand.
    26: So, if they say to you, `Lo, he is in the wilderness,' do not go out; if they say, `Lo, he is in the inner rooms,' do not believe it.
    27: For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of man.
    28: Wherever the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together.
    29: "Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken;
    30: then will appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory;
    31: and he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
    32: "From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near.
    33: So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
    34: Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away till all these things take place.
    35: Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
    36: "But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only.
    37: As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of man.
    38: For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark,
    39: and they did not know until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of man.
    40: Then two men will be in the field; one is taken and one is left.
    41: Two women will be grinding at the mill; one is taken and one is left.
    42: Watch therefore, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
    43: But know this, that if the householder had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have watched and would not have let his house be broken into.
    44: Therefore you also must be ready; for the Son of man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
    45: "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time?
    46: Blessed is that servant whom his master when he comes will find so doing.
    47: Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
    48: But if that wicked servant says to himself, `My master is delayed,'
    49: and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eats and drinks with the drunken,
    50: the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know,
    51: and will punish him, and put him with the hypocrites; there men will weep and gnash their teeth.

End of day 289.