Day 357:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems upon its horns and a blasphemous name upon its heads.
    2: And the beast that I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. And to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority.
    3: One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed, and the whole earth followed the beast with wonder.
    4: Men worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, "Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?"
    5: And the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty-two months;
    6: it opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling, that is, those who dwell in heaven.
    7: Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and tongue and nation,
    8: and all who dwell on earth will worship it, every one whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain.
    9: If any one has an ear, let him hear:
    10: If any one is to be taken captive, to captivity he goes; if any one slays with the sword, with the sword must he be slain. Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.
    11: Then I saw another beast which rose out of the earth; it had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a dragon.
    12: It exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence, and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
    13: It works great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in the sight of men;
    14: and by the signs which it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it deceives those who dwell on earth, bidding them make an image for the beast which was wounded by the sword and yet lived;
    15: and it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast so that the image of the beast should even speak, and to cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain.
    16: Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead,
    17: so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of its name.
    18: This calls for wisdom: let him who has understanding reckon the number of the beast, for it is a human number, its number is six hundred and sixty-six.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Then I looked, and lo, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb, and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.
    2: And I heard a voice from heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; the voice I heard was like the sound of harpers playing on their harps,
    3: and they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth.
    4: It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are chaste; it is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes; these have been redeemed from mankind as first fruits for God and the Lamb,
    5: and in their mouth no lie was found, for they are spotless.
    6: Then I saw another angel flying in midheaven, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and tongue and people;
    7: and he said with a loud voice, "Fear God and give him glory, for the hour of his judgment has come; and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the fountains of water."
    8: Another angel, a second, followed, saying, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who made all nations drink the wine of her impure passion."
    9: And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If any one worships the beast and its image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
    10: he also shall drink the wine of God's wrath, poured unmixed into the cup of his anger, and he shall be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
    11: And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever; and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name."
    12: Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
    13: And I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord henceforth." "Blessed indeed," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!"
    14: Then I looked, and lo, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
    15: And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat upon the cloud, "Put in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe."
    16: So he who sat upon the cloud swung his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped.
    17: And another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle.
    18: Then another angel came out from the altar, the angel who has power over fire, and he called with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, "Put in your sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe."
    19: So the angel swung his sickle on the earth and gathered the vintage of the earth, and threw it into the great wine press of the wrath of God;
    20: and the wine press was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the wine press, as high as a horse's bridle, for one thousand six hundred stadia.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Then I saw another portent in heaven, great and wonderful, seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is ended.
    2: And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, and those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name, standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hands.
    3: And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great and wonderful are thy deeds, O Lord God the Almighty! Just and true are thy ways, O King of the ages!
    4: Who shall not fear and glorify thy name, O Lord? For thou alone art holy. All nations shall come and worship thee, for thy judgments have been revealed."
    5: After this I looked, and the temple of the tent of witness in heaven was opened,
    6: and out of the temple came the seven angels with the seven plagues, robed in pure bright linen, and their breasts girded with golden girdles.
    7: And one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives for ever and ever;
    8: and the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were ended.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven angels, "Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God."
    2: So the first angel went and poured his bowl on the earth, and foul and evil sores came upon the men who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
    3: The second angel poured his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a dead man, and every living thing died that was in the sea.
    4: The third angel poured his bowl into the rivers and the fountains of water, and they became blood.
    5: And I heard the angel of water say, "Just art thou in these thy judgments, thou who art and wast, O Holy One.
    6: For men have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink. It is their due!"
    7: And I heard the altar cry, "Yea, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are thy judgments!"
    8: The fourth angel poured his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch men with fire;
    9: men were scorched by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God who had power over these plagues, and they did not repent and give him glory.
    10: The fifth angel poured his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was in darkness; men gnawed their tongues in anguish
    11: and cursed the God of heaven for their pain and sores, and did not repent of their deeds.
    12: The sixth angel poured his bowl on the great river Euphra'tes, and its water was dried up, to prepare the way for the kings from the east.
    13: And I saw, issuing from the mouth of the dragon and from the mouth of the beast and from the mouth of the false prophet, three foul spirits like frogs;
    14: for they are demonic spirits, performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole world, to assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty.
    15: ("Lo, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is he who is awake, keeping his garments that he may not go naked and be seen exposed!")
    16: And they assembled them at the place which is called in Hebrew Armaged'don.
    17: The seventh angel poured his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple, from the throne, saying, "It is done!"
    18: And there were flashes of lightning, voices, peals of thunder, and a great earthquake such as had never been since men were on the earth, so great was that earthquake.
    19: The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and God remembered great Babylon, to make her drain the cup of the fury of his wrath.
    20: And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found;
    21: and great hailstones, heavy as a hundred-weight, dropped on men from heaven, till men cursed God for the plague of the hail, so fearful was that plague.

End of day 357.