Day 286:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city.
    2: And behold, they brought to him a paralytic, lying on his bed; and when Jesus saw their faith he said to the paralytic, "Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven."
    3: And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, "This man is blaspheming."
    4: But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts?
    5: For which is easier, to say, `Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, `Rise and walk'?
    6: But that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins" -- he then said to the paralytic -- "Rise, take up your bed and go home."
    7: And he rose and went home.
    8: When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
    9: As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax office; and he said to him, "Follow me." And he rose and followed him.
    10: And as he sat at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with Jesus and his disciples.
    11: And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
    12: But when he heard it, he said, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
    13: Go and learn what this means, `I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.' For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners."
    14: Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"
    15: And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come, when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.
    16: And no one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made.
    17: Neither is new wine put into old wineskins; if it is, the skins burst, and the wine is spilled, and the skins are destroyed; but new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved."
    18: While he was thus speaking to them, behold, a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying, "My daughter has just died; but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live."
    19: And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.
    20: And behold, a woman who had suffered from a hemorrhage for twelve years came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment;
    21: for she said to herself, "If I only touch his garment, I shall be made well."
    22: Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, "Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well." And instantly the woman was made well.
    23: And when Jesus came to the ruler's house, and saw the flute players, and the crowd making a tumult,
    24: he said, "Depart; for the girl is not dead but sleeping." And they laughed at him.
    25: But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
    26: And the report of this went through all that district.
    27: And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, "Have mercy on us, Son of David."
    28: When he entered the house, the blind men came to him; and Jesus said to them, "Do you believe that I am able to do this?" They said to him, "Yes, Lord."
    29: Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith be it done to you."
    30: And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly charged them, "See that no one knows it."
    31: But they went away and spread his fame through all that district.
    32: As they were going away, behold, a dumb demoniac was brought to him.
    33: And when the demon had been cast out, the dumb man spoke; and the crowds marveled, saying, "Never was anything like this seen in Israel."
    34: But the Pharisees said, "He casts out demons by the prince of demons."
    35: And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every infirmity.
    36: When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.
    37: Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few;
    38: pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest."

  Chapter 10.

    1: And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every infirmity.
    2: The names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zeb'edee, and John his brother;
    3: Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
    4: Simon the Cananaean, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
    5: These twelve Jesus sent out, charging them, "Go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans,
    6: but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
    7: And preach as you go, saying, `The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'
    8: Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without paying, give without pay.
    9: Take no gold, nor silver, nor copper in your belts,
    10: no bag for your journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor a staff; for the laborer deserves his food.
    11: And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it, and stay with him until you depart.
    12: As you enter the house, salute it.
    13: And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
    14: And if any one will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet as you leave that house or town.
    15: Truly, I say to you, it shall be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomor'rah than for that town.
    16: "Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves; so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.
    17: Beware of men; for they will deliver you up to councils, and flog you in their synagogues,
    18: and you will be dragged before governors and kings for my sake, to bear testimony before them and the Gentiles.
    19: When they deliver you up, do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say; for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour;
    20: for it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
    21: Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death;
    22: and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved.
    23: When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next; for truly, I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel, before the Son of man comes.
    24: "A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master;
    25: it is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Be-el'zebul, how much more will they malign those of his household.
    26: "So have no fear of them; for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
    27: What I tell you in the dark, utter in the light; and what you hear whispered, proclaim upon the housetops.
    28: And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
    29: Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father's will.
    30: But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
    31: Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.
    32: So every one who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven;
    33: but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.
    34: "Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
    35: For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;
    36: and a man's foes will be those of his own household.
    37: He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me;
    38: and he who does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
    39: He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
    40: "He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
    41: He who receives a prophet because he is a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he who receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward.
    42: And whoever gives to one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he shall not lose his reward."

  Chapter 11.

    1: And when Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities.
    2: Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples
    3: and said to him, "Are you he who is to come, or shall we look for another?"
    4: And Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John what you hear and see:
    5: the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them.
    6: And blessed is he who takes no offense at me."
    7: As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into the wilderness to behold? A reed shaken by the wind?
    8: Why then did you go out? To see a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, those who wear soft raiment are in kings' houses.
    9: Why then did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
    10: This is he of whom it is written, `Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.'
    11: Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has risen no one greater than John the Baptist; yet he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
    12: From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and men of violence take it by force.
    13: For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John;
    14: and if you are willing to accept it, he is Eli'jah who is to come.
    15: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
    16: "But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the market places and calling to their playmates,
    17: `We piped to you, and you did not dance; we wailed, and you did not mourn.'
    18: For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, `He has a demon';
    19: the Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, `Behold, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds."
    20: Then he began to upbraid the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent.
    21: "Woe to you, Chora'zin! woe to you, Beth-sa'ida! for if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
    22: But I tell you, it shall be more tolerable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
    23: And you, Caper'na-um, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
    24: But I tell you that it shall be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you."
    25: At that time Jesus declared, "I thank thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to babes;
    26: yea, Father, for such was thy gracious will.
    27: All things have been delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and any one to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.
    28: Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
    29: Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
    30: For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."

  Chapter 12.

    1: At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the sabbath; his disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.
    2: But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, "Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the sabbath."
    3: He said to them, "Have you not read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him:
    4: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
    5: Or have you not read in the law how on the sabbath the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are guiltless?
    6: I tell you, something greater than the temple is here.
    7: And if you had known what this means, `I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would not have condemned the guiltless.
    8: For the Son of man is lord of the sabbath."
    9: And he went on from there, and entered their synagogue.
    10: And behold, there was a man with a withered hand. And they asked him, "Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath?" so that they might accuse him.
    11: He said to them, "What man of you, if he has one sheep and it falls into a pit on the sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out?
    12: Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the sabbath."
    13: Then he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, whole like the other.
    14: But the Pharisees went out and took counsel against him, how to destroy him.
    15: Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all,
    16: and ordered them not to make him known.
    17: This was to fulfil what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah:
    18: "Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my Spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles.
    19: He will not wrangle or cry aloud, nor will any one hear his voice in the streets;
    20: he will not break a bruised reed or quench a smoldering wick, till he brings justice to victory;
    21: and in his name will the Gentiles hope."
    22: Then a blind and dumb demoniac was brought to him, and he healed him, so that the dumb man spoke and saw.
    23: And all the people were amazed, and said, "Can this be the Son of David?"
    24: But when the Pharisees heard it they said, "It is only by Be-el'zebul, the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons."
    25: Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand;
    26: and if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself; how then will his kingdom stand?
    27: And if I cast out demons by Be-el'zebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
    28: But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
    29: Or how can one enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house.
    30: He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.
    31: Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
    32: And whoever says a word against the Son of man will be forgiven; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
    33: "Either make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree bad, and its fruit bad; for the tree is known by its fruit.
    34: You brood of vipers! how can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
    35: The good man out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil man out of his evil treasure brings forth evil.
    36: I tell you, on the day of judgment men will render account for every careless word they utter;
    37: for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned."
    38: Then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to him, "Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you."
    39: But he answered them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign; but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
    40: For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
    41: The men of Nin'eveh will arise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
    42: The queen of the South will arise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
    43: "When the unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he passes through waterless places seeking rest, but he finds none.
    44: Then he says, `I will return to my house from which I came.' And when he comes he finds it empty, swept, and put in order.
    45: Then he goes and brings with him seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter and dwell there; and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. So shall it be also with this evil generation."
    46: While he was still speaking to the people, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, asking to speak to him.
    47: But he replied to the man who told him, "Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?"
    48: And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!
    49: For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother, and sister, and mother."

End of day 286.