Day 255:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, speak to your people and say to them, If I bring the sword upon a land, and the people of the land take a man from among them, and make him their watchman;
    3: and if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people;
    4: then if any one who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.
    5: He heard the sound of the trumpet, and did not take warning; his blood shall be upon himself. But if he had taken warning, he would have saved his life.
    6: But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, so that the people are not warned, and the sword comes, and takes any one of them; that man is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand.
    7: "So you, son of man, I have made a watchman for the house of Israel; whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
    8: If I say to the wicked, O wicked man, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
    9: But if you warn the wicked to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way; he shall die in his iniquity, but you will have saved your life.
    10: "And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, Thus have you said: `Our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we waste away because of them; how then can we live?'
    11: Say to them, As I live, says the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live; turn back, turn back from your evil ways; for why will you die, O house of Israel?
    12: And you, son of man, say to your people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him when he transgresses; and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it when he turns from his wickedness; and the righteous shall not be able to live by his righteousness when he sins.
    13: Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he trusts in his righteousness and commits iniquity, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered; but in the iniquity that he has committed he shall die.
    14: Again, though I say to the wicked, `You shall surely die,' yet if he turns from his sin and does what is lawful and right,
    15: if the wicked restores the pledge, gives back what he has taken by robbery, and walks in the statutes of life, committing no iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.
    16: None of the sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him; he has done what is lawful and right, he shall surely live.
    17: "Yet your people say, `The way of the Lord is not just'; when it is their own way that is not just.
    18: When the righteous turns from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, he shall die for it.
    19: And when the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does what is lawful and right, he shall live by it.
    20: Yet you say, `The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways."
    21: In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a man who had escaped from Jerusalem came to me and said, "The city has fallen."
    22: Now the hand of the LORD had been upon me the evening before the fugitive came; and he had opened my mouth by the time the man came to me in the morning; so my mouth was opened, and I was no longer dumb.
    23: The word of the LORD came to me:
    24: "Son of man, the inhabitants of these waste places in the land of Israel keep saying, `Abraham was only one man, yet he got possession of the land; but we are many; the land is surely given us to possess.'
    25: Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: You eat flesh with the blood, and lift up your eyes to your idols, and shed blood; shall you then possess the land?
    26: You resort to the sword, you commit abominations and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife; shall you then possess the land?
    27: Say this to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword; and him that is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured; and those who are in strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence.
    28: And I will make the land a desolation and a waste; and her proud might shall come to an end; and the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through.
    29: Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste because of all their abominations which they have committed.
    30: "As for you, son of man, your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses, say to one another, each to his brother, `Come, and hear what the word is that comes forth from the LORD.'
    31: And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say but they will not do it; for with their lips they show much love, but their heart is set on their gain.
    32: And, lo, you are to them like one who sings love songs with a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument, for they hear what you say, but they will not do it.
    33: When this comes -- and come it will! -- then they will know that a prophet has been among them."

  Chapter 34.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord GOD: Ho, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves! Should not shepherds feed the sheep?
    3: You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fatlings; but you do not feed the sheep.
    4: The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the crippled you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them.
    5: So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd; and they became food for all the wild beasts.
    6: My sheep were scattered, they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill; my sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them.
    7: "Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
    8: As I live, says the Lord GOD, because my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd; and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep;
    9: therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
    10: Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their hand, and put a stop to their feeding the sheep; no longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them.
    11: "For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep, and will seek them out.
    12: As a shepherd seeks out his flock when some of his sheep have been scattered abroad, so will I seek out my sheep; and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness.
    13: And I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land; and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the fountains, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
    14: I will feed them with good pasture, and upon the mountain heights of Israel shall be their pasture; there they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on fat pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel.
    15: I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will make them lie down, says the Lord GOD.
    16: I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the crippled, and I will strengthen the weak, and the fat and the strong I will watch over; I will feed them in justice.
    17: "As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, rams and he-goats.
    18: Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must foul the rest with your feet?
    19: And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have fouled with your feet?
    20: "Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
    21: Because you push with side and shoulder, and thrust at all the weak with your horns, till you have scattered them abroad,
    22: I will save my flock, they shall no longer be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep.
    23: And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed them and be their shepherd.
    24: And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them; I, the LORD, have spoken.
    25: "I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods.
    26: And I will make them and the places round about my hill a blessing; and I will send down the showers in their season; they shall be showers of blessing.
    27: And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them.
    28: They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them; they shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid.
    29: And I will provide for them prosperous plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations.
    30: And they shall know that I, the LORD their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the Lord GOD.
    31: And you are my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 35.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, set your face against Mount Se'ir, and prophesy against it,
    3: and say to it, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, Mount Se'ir, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you a desolation and a waste.
    4: I will lay your cities waste, and you shall become a desolation; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
    5: Because you cherished perpetual enmity, and gave over the people of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment;
    6: therefore, as I live, says the Lord GOD, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you; because you are guilty of blood, therefore blood shall pursue you.
    7: I will make Mount Se'ir a waste and a desolation; and I will cut off from it all who come and go.
    8: And I will fill your mountains with the slain; on your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines those slain with the sword shall fall.
    9: I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
    10: "Because you said, `These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will take possession of them,' -- although the LORD was there --
    11: therefore, as I live, says the Lord GOD, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy which you showed because of your hatred against them; and I will make myself known among you, when I judge you.
    12: And you shall know that I, the LORD, have heard all the revilings which you uttered against the mountains of Israel, saying, `They are laid desolate, they are given us to devour.'
    13: And you magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and multiplied your words against me; I heard it.
    14: Thus says the Lord GOD: For the rejoicing of the whole earth I will make you desolate.
    15: As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so I will deal with you; you shall be desolate, Mount Se'ir, and all Edom, all of it. Then they will know that I am the LORD.

  Chapter 36.

    1: "And you, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD.
    2: Thus says the Lord GOD: Because the enemy said of you, `Aha!' and, `The ancient heights have become our possession,'
    3: therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Because, yea, because they made you desolate, and crushed you from all sides, so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations, and you became the talk and evil gossip of the people;
    4: therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains and the hills, the ravines and the valleys, the desolate wastes and the deserted cities, which have become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations round about;
    5: therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I speak in my hot jealousy against the rest of the nations, and against all Edom, who gave my land to themselves as a possession with wholehearted joy and utter contempt, that they might possess it and plunder it.
    6: Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I speak in my jealous wrath, because you have suffered the reproach of the nations;
    7: therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I swear that the nations that are round about you shall themselves suffer reproach.
    8: "But you, O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel; for they will soon come home.
    9: For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown;
    10: and I will multiply men upon you, the whole house of Israel, all of it; the cities shall be inhabited and the waste places rebuilt;
    11: and I will multiply upon you man and beast; and they shall increase and be fruitful; and I will cause you to be inhabited as in your former times, and will do more good to you than ever before. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
    12: Yea, I will let men walk upon you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no longer bereave them of children.
    13: Thus says the Lord GOD: Because men say to you, `You devour men, and you bereave your nation of children,'
    14: therefore you shall no longer devour men and no longer bereave your nation of children, says the Lord GOD;
    15: and I will not let you hear any more the reproach of the nations, and you shall no longer bear the disgrace of the peoples and no longer cause your nation to stumble, says the Lord GOD."
    16: The word of the LORD came to me:
    17: "Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their doings; their conduct before me was like the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity.
    18: So I poured out my wrath upon them for the blood which they had shed in the land, for the idols with which they had defiled it.
    19: I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries; in accordance with their conduct and their deeds I judged them.
    20: But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that men said of them, `These are the people of the LORD, and yet they had to go out of his land.'
    21: But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel caused to be profaned among the nations to which they came.
    22: "Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came.
    23: And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them; and the nations will know that I am the LORD, says the Lord GOD, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
    24: For I will take you from the nations, and gather you from all the countries, and bring you into your own land.
    25: I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols I will cleanse you.
    26: A new heart I will give you, and a new spirit I will put within you; and I will take out of your flesh the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh.
    27: And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to observe my ordinances.
    28: You shall dwell in the land which I gave to your fathers; and you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
    29: And I will deliver you from all your uncleannesses; and I will summon the grain and make it abundant and lay no famine upon you.
    30: I will make the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations.
    31: Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good; and you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominable deeds.
    32: It is not for your sake that I will act, says the Lord GOD; let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel.
    33: "Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt.
    34: And the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all who passed by.
    35: And they will say, `This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are now inhabited and fortified.'
    36: Then the nations that are left round about you shall know that I, the LORD, have rebuilt the ruined places, and replanted that which was desolate; I, the LORD, have spoken, and I will do it.
    37: "Thus says the Lord GOD: This also I will let the house of Israel ask me to do for them: to increase their men like a flock.
    38: Like the flock for sacrifices, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men. Then they will know that I am the LORD."

End of day 255.