Day 222:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: When King Hezeki'ah heard it, he rent his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the LORD.
    2: And he sent Eli'akim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, clothed with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
    3: They said to him, "Thus says Hezeki'ah, `This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
    4: It may be that the LORD your God heard the words of the Rab'shakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words which the LORD your God has heard; therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.'"
    5: When the servants of King Hezeki'ah came to Isaiah,
    6: Isaiah said to them, "Say to your master, `Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have reviled me.
    7: Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that he shall hear a rumor, and return to his own land; and I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.'"
    8: The Rab'shakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah; for he had heard that the king had left Lachish.
    9: Now the king heard concerning Tirha'kah king of Ethiopia, "He has set out to fight against you." And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezeki'ah, saying,
    10: "Thus shall you speak to Hezeki'ah king of Judah: `Do not let your God on whom you rely deceive you by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
    11: Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, destroying them utterly. And shall you be delivered?
    12: Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations which my fathers destroyed, Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Tel-assar?
    13: Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharva'im, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?'"
    14: Hezeki'ah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezeki'ah went up to the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.
    15: And Hezeki'ah prayed to the LORD:
    16: "O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, who art enthroned above the cherubim, thou art the God, thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast made heaven and earth.
    17: Incline thy ear, O LORD, and hear; open thy eyes, O LORD, and see; and hear all the words of Sennach'erib, which he has sent to mock the living God.
    18: Of a truth, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands,
    19: and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone; therefore they were destroyed.
    20: So now, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou alone art the LORD."
    21: Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezeki'ah, saying, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennach'erib king of Assyria,
    22: this is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: `She despises you, she scorns you -- the virgin daughter of Zion; she wags her head behind you -- the daughter of Jerusalem.
    23: `Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and haughtily lifted your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel!
    24: By your servants you have mocked the Lord, and you have said, With my many chariots I have gone up the heights of the mountains, to the far recesses of Lebanon; I felled its tallest cedars, its choicest cypresses; I came to its remotest height, its densest forest.
    25: I dug wells and drank waters, and I dried up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt.
    26: `Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what now I bring to pass, that you should make fortified cities crash into heaps of ruins,
    27: while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it is grown.
    28: `I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
    29: Because you have raged against me and your arrogance has come to my ears, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the way by which you came.'
    30: "And this shall be the sign for you: this year eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs of the same; then in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
    31: And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward;
    32: for out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will accomplish this.
    33: "Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city, or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield, or cast up a siege mound against it.
    34: By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, says the LORD.
    35: For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David."
    36: And the angel of the LORD went forth, and slew a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians; and when men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
    37: Then Sennach'erib king of Assyria departed, and went home and dwelt at Nin'eveh.
    38: And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adram'melech and Share'zer, his sons, slew him with the sword, and escaped into the land of Ar'arat. And E'sar-had'don his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 38.

    1: In those days Hezeki'ah became sick and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: Set your house in order; for you shall die, you shall not recover."
    2: Then Hezeki'ah turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the LORD,
    3: and said, "Remember now, O LORD, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in thy sight." And Hezeki'ah wept bitterly.
    4: Then the word of the LORD came to Isaiah:
    5: "Go and say to Hezeki'ah, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will add fifteen years to your life.
    6: I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and defend this city.
    7: "This is the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that he has promised:
    8: Behold, I will make the shadow cast by the declining sun on the dial of Ahaz turn back ten steps." So the sun turned back on the dial the ten steps by which it had declined.
    9: A writing of Hezeki'ah king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
    10: I said, In the noontide of my days I must depart; I am consigned to the gates of Sheol for the rest of my years.
    11: I said, I shall not see the LORD in the land of the living; I shall look upon man no more among the inhabitants of the world.
    12: My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me like a shepherd's tent; like a weaver I have rolled up my life; he cuts me off from the loom; from day to night thou dost bring me to an end;
    13: I cry for help until morning; like a lion he breaks all my bones; from day to night thou dost bring me to an end.
    14: Like a swallow or a crane I clamor, I moan like a dove. My eyes are weary with looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed; be thou my security!
    15: But what can I say? For he has spoken to me, and he himself has done it. All my sleep has fled because of the bitterness of my soul.
    16: O Lord, by these things men live, and in all these is the life of my spirit. Oh, restore me to health and make me live!
    17: Lo, it was for my welfare that I had great bitterness; but thou hast held back my life from the pit of destruction, for thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back.
    18: For Sheol cannot thank thee, death cannot praise thee; those who go down to the pit cannot hope for thy faithfulness.
    19: The living, the living, he thanks thee, as I do this day; the father makes known to the children thy faithfulness.
    20: The LORD will save me, and we will sing to stringed instruments all the days of our life, at the house of the LORD.
    21: Now Isaiah had said, "Let them take a cake of figs, and apply it to the boil, that he may recover."
    22: Hezeki'ah also had said, "What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?"

  Chapter 39.

    1: At that time Mer'odach-bal'adan the son of Bal'adan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezeki'ah, for he heard that he had been sick and had recovered.
    2: And Hezeki'ah welcomed them; and he showed them his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezeki'ah did not show them.
    3: Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezeki'ah, and said to him, "What did these men say? And whence did they come to you?" Hezeki'ah said, "They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon."
    4: He said, "What have they seen in your house?" Hezeki'ah answered, "They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them."
    5: Then Isaiah said to Hezeki'ah, "Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:
    6: Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon; nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
    7: And some of your own sons, who are born to you, shall be taken away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon."
    8: Then said Hezeki'ah to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD which you have spoken is good." For he thought, "There will be peace and security in my days."

  Chapter 40.

    1: Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
    2: Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
    3: A voice cries: "In the wilderness prepare the way of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.
    4: Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain.
    5: And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the LORD has spoken."
    6: A voice says, "Cry!" And I said, "What shall I cry?" All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field.
    7: The grass withers, the flower fades, when the breath of the LORD blows upon it; surely the people is grass.
    8: The grass withers, the flower fades; but the word of our God will stand for ever.
    9: Get you up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good tidings; lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good tidings, lift it up, fear not; say to the cities of Judah, "Behold your God!"
    10: Behold, the Lord GOD comes with might, and his arm rules for him; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
    11: He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arms, he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.
    12: Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance?
    13: Who has directed the Spirit of the LORD, or as his counselor has instructed him?
    14: Whom did he consult for his enlightenment, and who taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
    15: Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as the dust on the scales; behold, he takes up the isles like fine dust.
    16: Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
    17: All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness.
    18: To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him?
    19: The idol! a workman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts for it silver chains.
    20: He who is impoverished chooses for an offering wood that will not rot; he seeks out a skilful craftsman to set up an image that will not move.
    21: Have you not known? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth?
    22: It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in;
    23: who brings princes to nought, and makes the rulers of the earth as nothing.
    24: Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he blows upon them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble.
    25: To whom then will you compare me, that I should be like him? says the Holy One.
    26: Lift up your eyes on high and see: who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name; by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power not one is missing.
    27: Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, "My way is hid from the LORD, and my right is disregarded by my God"?
    28: Have you not known? Have you not heard? The LORD is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary, his understanding is unsearchable.
    29: He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength.
    30: Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted;
    31: but they who wait for the LORD shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint.

End of day 222.