Day 176:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['129', '130', '131', '132']:

  Chapter 129.

    1: "Sorely have they afflicted me from my youth," let Israel now say --
    2: "Sorely have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me.
    3: The plowers plowed upon my back; they made long their furrows."
    4: The LORD is righteous; he has cut the cords of the wicked.
    5: May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward!
    6: Let them be like the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up,
    7: with which the reaper does not fill his hand or the binder of sheaves his bosom,
    8: while those who pass by do not say, "The blessing of the LORD be upon you! We bless you in the name of the LORD!"

  Chapter 130.

    1: Out of the depths I cry to thee, O LORD!
    2: Lord, hear my voice! Let thy ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications!
    3: If thou, O LORD, shouldst mark iniquities, Lord, who could stand?
    4: But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.
    5: I wait for the LORD, my soul waits, and in his word I hope;
    6: my soul waits for the LORD more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning.
    7: O Israel, hope in the LORD! For with the LORD there is steadfast love, and with him is plenteous redemption.
    8: And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities.

  Chapter 131.

    1: O LORD, my heart is not lifted up, my eyes are not raised too high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me.
    2: But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a child quieted at its mother's breast; like a child that is quieted is my soul.
    3: O Israel, hope in the LORD from this time forth and for evermore.

  Chapter 132.

    1: Remember, O LORD, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured;
    2: how he swore to the LORD and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob,
    3: "I will not enter my house or get into my bed;
    4: I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids,
    5: until I find a place for the LORD, a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob."
    6: Lo, we heard of it in Eph'rathah, we found it in the fields of Ja'ar.
    7: "Let us go to his dwelling place; let us worship at his footstool!"
    8: Arise, O LORD, and go to thy resting place, thou and the ark of thy might.
    9: Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness, and let thy saints shout for joy.
    10: For thy servant David's sake do not turn away the face of thy anointed one.
    11: The LORD swore to David a sure oath from which he will not turn back: "One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne.
    12: If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies which I shall teach them, their sons also for ever shall sit upon your throne."
    13: For the LORD has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his habitation:
    14: "This is my resting place for ever; here I will dwell, for I have desired it.
    15: I will abundantly bless her provisions; I will satisfy her poor with bread.
    16: Her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy.
    17: There I will make a horn to sprout for David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed.
    18: His enemies I will clothe with shame, but upon himself his crown will shed its luster."

End of day 176.