Day 310:

Reading Acts, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Now in the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyre'ne, Man'a-en a member of the court of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
    2: While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."
    3: Then after fasting and praying they laid their hands on them and sent them off.
    4: So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleu'cia; and from there they sailed to Cyprus.
    5: When they arrived at Sal'amis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John to assist them.
    6: When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet, named Bar-Jesus.
    7: He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God.
    8: But El'ymas the magician (for that is the meaning of his name) withstood them, seeking to turn away the proconsul from the faith.
    9: But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
    10: and said, "You son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy, will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord?
    11: And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind and unable to see the sun for a time." Immediately mist and darkness fell upon him and he went about seeking people to lead him by the hand.
    12: Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had occurred, for he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord.
    13: Now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphyl'ia. And John left them and returned to Jerusalem;
    14: but they passed on from Perga and came to Antioch of Pisid'ia. And on the sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down.
    15: After the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, "Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it."
    16: So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said: "Men of Israel, and you that fear God, listen.
    17: The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt, and with uplifted arm he led them out of it.
    18: And for about forty years he bore with them in the wilderness.
    19: And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as an inheritance, for about four hundred and fifty years.
    20: And after that he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
    21: Then they asked for a king; and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
    22: And when he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king; of whom he testified and said, `I have found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my will.'
    23: Of this man's posterity God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised.
    24: Before his coming John had preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
    25: And as John was finishing his course, he said, `What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.'
    26: "Brethren, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you that fear God, to us has been sent the message of this salvation.
    27: For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him nor understand the utterances of the prophets which are read every sabbath, fulfilled these by condemning him.
    28: Though they could charge him with nothing deserving death, yet they asked Pilate to have him killed.
    29: And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb.
    30: But God raised him from the dead;
    31: and for many days he appeared to those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.
    32: And we bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers,
    33: this he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus; as also it is written in the second psalm, `Thou art my Son, today I have begotten thee.'
    34: And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he spoke in this way, `I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.'
    35: Therefore he says also in another psalm, `Thou wilt not let thy Holy One see corruption.'
    36: For David, after he had served the counsel of God in his own generation, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers, and saw corruption;
    37: but he whom God raised up saw no corruption.
    38: Let it be known to you therefore, brethren, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you,
    39: and by him every one that believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.
    40: Beware, therefore, lest there come upon you what is said in the prophets:
    41: `Behold, you scoffers, and wonder, and perish; for I do a deed in your days, a deed you will never believe, if one declares it to you.'"
    42: As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next sabbath.
    43: And when the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and urged them to continue in the grace of God.
    44: The next sabbath almost the whole city gathered together to hear the word of God.
    45: But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted what was spoken by Paul, and reviled him.
    46: And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, "It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
    47: For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, `I have set you to be a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the uttermost parts of the earth.'"
    48: And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of God; and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed.
    49: And the word of the Lord spread throughout all the region.
    50: But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district.
    51: But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and went to Ico'nium.
    52: And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Now at Ico'nium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue, and so spoke that a great company believed, both of Jews and of Greeks.
    2: But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brethren.
    3: So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
    4: But the people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles.
    5: When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to molest them and to stone them,
    6: they learned of it and fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycao'nia, and to the surrounding country;
    7: and there they preached the gospel.
    8: Now at Lystra there was a man sitting, who could not use his feet; he was a cripple from birth, who had never walked.
    9: He listened to Paul speaking; and Paul, looking intently at him and seeing that he had faith to be made well,
    10: said in a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." And he sprang up and walked.
    11: And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycao'nian, "The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!"
    12: Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, because he was the chief speaker, they called Hermes.
    13: And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was in front of the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the people.
    14: But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out among the multitude, crying,
    15: "Men, why are you doing this? We also are men, of like nature with you, and bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them.
    16: In past generations he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways;
    17: yet he did not leave himself without witness, for he did good and gave you from heaven rains and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness."
    18: With these words they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them.
    19: But Jews came there from Antioch and Ico'nium; and having persuaded the people, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
    20: But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city; and on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derbe.
    21: When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Ico'nium and to Antioch,
    22: strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.
    23: And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting they committed them to the Lord in whom they believed.
    24: Then they passed through Pisid'ia, and came to Pamphyl'ia.
    25: And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attali'a;
    26: and from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had fulfilled.
    27: And when they arrived, they gathered the church together and declared all that God had done with them, and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
    28: And they remained no little time with the disciples.

  Chapter 15.

    1: But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brethren, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."
    2: And when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question.
    3: So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoeni'cia and Sama'ria, reporting the conversion of the Gentiles, and they gave great joy to all the brethren.
    4: When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they declared all that God had done with them.
    5: But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up, and said, "It is necessary to circumcise them, and to charge them to keep the law of Moses."
    6: The apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter.
    7: And after there had been much debate, Peter rose and said to them, "Brethren, you know that in the early days God made choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
    8: And God who knows the heart bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us;
    9: and he made no distinction between us and them, but cleansed their hearts by faith.
    10: Now therefore why do you make trial of God by putting a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
    11: But we believe that we shall be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will."
    12: And all the assembly kept silence; and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
    13: After they finished speaking, James replied, "Brethren, listen to me.
    14: Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.
    15: And with this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written,
    16: `After this I will return, and I will rebuild the dwelling of David, which has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I will set it up,
    17: that the rest of men may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name,
    18: says the Lord, who has made these things known from of old.'
    19: Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God,
    20: but should write to them to abstain from the pollutions of idols and from unchastity and from what is strangled and from blood.
    21: For from early generations Moses has had in every city those who preach him, for he is read every sabbath in the synagogues."
    22: Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsab'bas, and Silas, leading men among the brethren,
    23: with the following letter: "The brethren, both the apostles and the elders, to the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cili'cia, greeting.
    24: Since we have heard that some persons from us have troubled you with words, unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions,
    25: it has seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
    26: men who have risked their lives for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.
    27: We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth.
    28: For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
    29: that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols and from blood and from what is strangled and from unchastity. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell."
    30: So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch; and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter.
    31: And when they read it, they rejoiced at the exhortation.
    32: And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, exhorted the brethren with many words and strengthened them.
    33: And after they had spent some time, they were sent off in peace by the brethren to those who had sent them.
    34: But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
    35: And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Come, let us return and visit the brethren in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are."
    36: And Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark.
    37: But Paul thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphyl'ia, and had not gone with them to the work.
    38: And there arose a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other; Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus,
    39: but Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended by the brethren to the grace of the Lord.
    40: And he went through Syria and Cili'cia, strengthening the churches.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And he came also to Derbe and to Lystra. A disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer; but his father was a Greek.
    2: He was well spoken of by the brethren at Lystra and Ico'nium.
    3: Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him; and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
    4: As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions which had been reached by the apostles and elders who were at Jerusalem.
    5: So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and they increased in numbers daily.
    6: And they went through the region of Phry'gia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
    7: And when they had come opposite My'sia, they attempted to go into Bithyn'ia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them;
    8: so, passing by My'sia, they went down to Tro'as.
    9: And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of Macedo'nia was standing beseeching him and saying, "Come over to Macedo'nia and help us."
    10: And when he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedo'nia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
    11: Setting sail therefore from Tro'as, we made a direct voyage to Sam'othrace, and the following day to Ne-ap'olis,
    12: and from there to Philip'pi, which is the leading city of the district of Macedo'nia, and a Roman colony. We remained in this city some days;
    13: and on the sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer; and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
    14: One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyati'ra, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to give heed to what was said by Paul.
    15: And when she was baptized, with her household, she besought us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay." And she prevailed upon us.
    16: As we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination and brought her owners much gain by soothsaying.
    17: She followed Paul and us, crying, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation."
    18: And this she did for many days. But Paul was annoyed, and turned and said to the spirit, "I charge you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it came out that very hour.
    19: But when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the market place before the rulers;
    20: and when they had brought them to the magistrates they said, "These men are Jews and they are disturbing our city.
    21: They advocate customs which it is not lawful for us Romans to accept or practice."
    22: The crowd joined in attacking them; and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods.
    23: And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely.
    24: Having received this charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.
    25: But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them,
    26: and suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened and every one's fetters were unfastened.
    27: When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
    28: But Paul cried with a loud voice, "Do not harm yourself, for we are all here."
    29: And he called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear he fell down before Paul and Silas,
    30: and brought them out and said, "Men, what must I do to be saved?"
    31: And they said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household."
    32: And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all that were in his house.
    33: And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, with all his family.
    34: Then he brought them up into his house, and set food before them; and he rejoiced with all his household that he had believed in God.
    35: But when it was day, the magistrates sent the police, saying, "Let those men go."
    36: And the jailer reported the words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent to let you go; now therefore come out and go in peace."
    37: But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Roman citizens, and have thrown us into prison; and do they now cast us out secretly? No! let them come themselves and take us out."
    38: The police reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Roman citizens;
    39: so they came and apologized to them. And they took them out and asked them to leave the city.
    40: So they went out of the prison, and visited Lydia; and when they had seen the brethren, they exhorted them and departed.

End of day 310.