Day 294:

Reading Mark, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Look, Teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!"
    2: And Jesus said to him, "Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another, that will not be thrown down."
    3: And as he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
    4: "Tell us, when will this be, and what will be the sign when these things are all to be accomplished?"
    5: And Jesus began to say to them, "Take heed that no one leads you astray.
    6: Many will come in my name, saying, `I am he!' and they will lead many astray.
    7: And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; this must take place, but the end is not yet.
    8: For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in various places, there will be famines; this is but the beginning of the birth-pangs.
    9: "But take heed to yourselves; for they will deliver you up to councils; and you will be beaten in synagogues; and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear testimony before them.
    10: And the gospel must first be preached to all nations.
    11: And when they bring you to trial and deliver you up, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say; but say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
    12: And brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death;
    13: and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved.
    14: "But when you see the desolating sacrilege set up where it ought not to be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
    15: let him who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter his house, to take anything away;
    16: and let him who is in the field not turn back to take his mantle.
    17: And alas for those who are with child and for those who give suck in those days!
    18: Pray that it may not happen in winter.
    19: For in those days there will be such tribulation as has not been from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never will be.
    20: And if the Lord had not shortened the days, no human being would be saved; but for the sake of the elect, whom he chose, he shortened the days.
    21: And then if any one says to you, `Look, here is the Christ!' or `Look, there he is!' do not believe it.
    22: False Christs and false prophets will arise and show signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the elect.
    23: But take heed; I have told you all things beforehand.
    24: "But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
    25: and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
    26: And then they will see the Son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
    27: And then he will send out the angels, and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven.
    28: "From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near.
    29: So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
    30: Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away before all these things take place.
    31: Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
    32: "But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
    33: Take heed, watch; for you do not know when the time will come.
    34: It is like a man going on a journey, when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to be on the watch.
    35: Watch therefore -- for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or at cockcrow, or in the morning --
    36: lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
    37: And what I say to you I say to all: Watch."

  Chapter 14.

    1: It was now two days before the Passover and the feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth, and kill him;
    2: for they said, "Not during the feast, lest there be a tumult of the people."
    3: And while he was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head.
    4: But there were some who said to themselves indignantly, "Why was the ointment thus wasted?
    5: For this ointment might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the poor." And they reproached her.
    6: But Jesus said, "Let her alone; why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
    7: For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you will, you can do good to them; but you will not always have me.
    8: She has done what she could; she has anointed my body beforehand for burying.
    9: And truly, I say to you, wherever the gospel is preached in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her."
    10: Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them.
    11: And when they heard it they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought an opportunity to betray him.
    12: And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the passover lamb, his disciples said to him, "Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the passover?"
    13: And he sent two of his disciples, and said to them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him,
    14: and wherever he enters, say to the householder, `The Teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I am to eat the passover with my disciples?'
    15: And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us."
    16: And the disciples set out and went to the city, and found it as he had told them; and they prepared the passover.
    17: And when it was evening he came with the twelve.
    18: And as they were at table eating, Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me."
    19: They began to be sorrowful, and to say to him one after another, "Is it I?"
    20: He said to them, "It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me.
    21: For the Son of man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born."
    22: And as they were eating, he took bread, and blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, "Take; this is my body."
    23: And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it.
    24: And he said to them, "This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.
    25: Truly, I say to you, I shall not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God."
    26: And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
    27: And Jesus said to them, "You will all fall away; for it is written, `I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.'
    28: But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee."
    29: Peter said to him, "Even though they all fall away, I will not."
    30: And Jesus said to him, "Truly, I say to you, this very night, before the cock crows twice, you will deny me three times."
    31: But he said vehemently, "If I must die with you, I will not deny you." And they all said the same.
    32: And they went to a place which was called Gethsem'ane; and he said to his disciples, "Sit here, while I pray."
    33: And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled.
    34: And he said to them, "My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch."
    35: And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
    36: And he said, "Abba, Father, all things are possible to thee; remove this cup from me; yet not what I will, but what thou wilt."
    37: And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, "Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour?
    38: Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation; the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."
    39: And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
    40: And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy; and they did not know what to answer him.
    41: And he came the third time, and said to them, "Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough; the hour has come; the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
    42: Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand."
    43: And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
    44: Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, "The one I shall kiss is the man; seize him and lead him away under guard."
    45: And when he came, he went up to him at once, and said, "Master!" And he kissed him.
    46: And they laid hands on him and seized him.
    47: But one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his ear.
    48: And Jesus said to them, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me?
    49: Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the scriptures be fulfilled."
    50: And they all forsook him, and fled.
    51: And a young man followed him, with nothing but a linen cloth about his body; and they seized him,
    52: but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked.
    53: And they led Jesus to the high priest; and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes were assembled.
    54: And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest; and he was sitting with the guards, and warming himself at the fire.
    55: Now the chief priests and the whole council sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death; but they found none.
    56: For many bore false witness against him, and their witness did not agree.
    57: And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying,
    58: "We heard him say, `I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another, not made with hands.'"
    59: Yet not even so did their testimony agree.
    60: And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, "Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?"
    61: But he was silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?"
    62: And Jesus said, "I am; and you will see the Son of man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven."
    63: And the high priest tore his garments, and said, "Why do we still need witnesses?
    64: You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision?" And they all condemned him as deserving death.
    65: And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to strike him, saying to him, "Prophesy!" And the guards received him with blows.
    66: And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the maids of the high priest came;
    67: and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him, and said, "You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus."
    68: But he denied it, saying, "I neither know nor understand what you mean." And he went out into the gateway.
    69: And the maid saw him, and began again to say to the bystanders, "This man is one of them."
    70: But again he denied it. And after a little while again the bystanders said to Peter, "Certainly you are one of them; for you are a Galilean."
    71: But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not know this man of whom you speak."
    72: And immediately the cock crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, "Before the cock crows twice, you will deny me three times." And he broke down and wept.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And as soon as it was morning the chief priests, with the elders and scribes, and the whole council held a consultation; and they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him to Pilate.
    2: And Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" And he answered him, "You have said so."
    3: And the chief priests accused him of many things.
    4: And Pilate again asked him, "Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you."
    5: But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate wondered.
    6: Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked.
    7: And among the rebels in prison, who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barab'bas.
    8: And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he was wont to do for them.
    9: And he answered them, "Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?"
    10: For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up.
    11: But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barab'bas instead.
    12: And Pilate again said to them, "Then what shall I do with the man whom you call the King of the Jews?"
    13: And they cried out again, "Crucify him."
    14: And Pilate said to them, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Crucify him."
    15: So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barab'bas; and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.
    16: And the soldiers led him away inside the palace (that is, the praetorium); and they called together the whole battalion.
    17: And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and plaiting a crown of thorns they put it on him.
    18: And they began to salute him, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
    19: And they struck his head with a reed, and spat upon him, and they knelt down in homage to him.
    20: And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak, and put his own clothes on him. And they led him out to crucify him.
    21: And they compelled a passer-by, Simon of Cyre'ne, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross.
    22: And they brought him to the place called Gol'gotha (which means the place of a skull).
    23: And they offered him wine mingled with myrrh; but he did not take it.
    24: And they crucified him, and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what each should take.
    25: And it was the third hour, when they crucified him.
    26: And the inscription of the charge against him read, "The King of the Jews."
    27: And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left.
    28: And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads, and saying, "Aha! You who would destroy the temple and build it in three days,
    29: save yourself, and come down from the cross!"
    30: So also the chief priests mocked him to one another with the scribes, saying, "He saved others; he cannot save himself.
    31: Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe." Those who were crucified with him also reviled him.
    32: And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
    33: And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, "E'lo-i, E'lo-i, la'ma sabach-tha'ni?" which means, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"
    34: And some of the bystanders hearing it said, "Behold, he is calling Eli'jah."
    35: And one ran and, filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink, saying, "Wait, let us see whether Eli'jah will come to take him down."
    36: And Jesus uttered a loud cry, and breathed his last.
    37: And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
    38: And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that he thus breathed his last, he said, "Truly this man was the Son of God!"
    39: There were also women looking on from afar, among whom were Mary Mag'dalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salo'me,
    40: who, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered to him; and also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.
    41: And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath,
    42: Joseph of Arimathe'a, a respected member of the council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
    43: And Pilate wondered if he were already dead; and summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he was already dead.
    44: And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the body to Joseph.
    45: And he bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud, and laid him in a tomb which had been hewn out of the rock; and he rolled a stone against the door of the tomb.
    46: Mary Mag'dalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And when the sabbath was past, Mary Mag'dalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salo'me, bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him.
    2: And very early on the first day of the week they went to the tomb when the sun had risen.
    3: And they were saying to one another, "Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the tomb?"
    4: And looking up, they saw that the stone was rolled back; -- it was very large.
    5: And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe; and they were amazed.
    6: And he said to them, "Do not be amazed; you seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen, he is not here; see the place where they laid him.
    7: But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee; there you will see him, as he told you."
    8: And they went out and fled from the tomb; for trembling and astonishment had come upon them; and they said nothing to any one, for they were afraid.
    9: Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
    10: She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
    11: But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it.
    12: After this he appeared in another form to two of them, as they were walking into the country.
    13: And they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them.
    14: Afterward he appeared to the eleven themselves as they sat at table; and he upbraided them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen.
    15: And he said to them, "Go into all the world and preach the gospel to the whole creation.
    16: He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.
    17: And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues;
    18: they will pick up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover."
    19: So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
    20: And they went forth and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the message by the signs that attended it. Amen.

End of day 294.