Day 19:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: "Now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
    2: When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing.
    3: If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him.
    4: If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's and he shall go out alone.
    5: But if the slave plainly says, `I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,'
    6: then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost; and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for life.
    7: "When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do.
    8: If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed; he shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has dealt faithlessly with her.
    9: If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter.
    10: If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
    11: And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.
    12: "Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death.
    13: But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, then I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee.
    14: But if a man willfully attacks another to kill him treacherously, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.
    15: "Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.
    16: "Whoever steals a man, whether he sells him or is found in possession of him, shall be put to death.
    17: "Whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death.
    18: "When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and the man does not die but keeps his bed,
    19: then if the man rises again and walks abroad with his staff, he that struck him shall be clear; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall have him thoroughly healed.
    20: "When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be punished.
    21: But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be punished; for the slave is his money.
    22: "When men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that there is a miscarriage, and yet no harm follows, the one who hurt her shall be fined, according as the woman's husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.
    23: If any harm follows, then you shall give life for life,
    24: eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
    25: burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
    26: "When a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free for the eye's sake.
    27: If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free for the tooth's sake.
    28: "When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be clear.
    29: But if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death.
    30: If a ransom is laid on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is laid upon him.
    31: If it gores a man's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to this same rule.
    32: If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.
    33: "When a man leaves a pit open, or when a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or an ass falls into it,
    34: the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money to its owner, and the dead beast shall be his.
    35: "When one man's ox hurts another's, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide the price of it; and the dead beast also they shall divide.
    36: Or if it is known that the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall pay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his.

  Chapter 22.

    1: "If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it or sells it, he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. He shall make restitution; if he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
    2: "If a thief is found breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguilt for him;
    3: but if the sun has risen upon him, there shall be bloodguilt for him.
    4: If the stolen beast is found alive in his possession, whether it is an ox or an ass or a sheep, he shall pay double.
    5: "When a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best in his own field and in his own vineyard.
    6: "When fire breaks out and catches in thorns so that the stacked grain or the standing grain or the field is consumed, he that kindled the fire shall make full restitution.
    7: "If a man delivers to his neighbor money or goods to keep, and it is stolen out of the man's house, then, if the thief is found, he shall pay double.
    8: If the thief is not found, the owner of the house shall come near to God, to show whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's goods.
    9: "For every breach of trust, whether it is for ox, for ass, for sheep, for clothing, or for any kind of lost thing, of which one says, `This is it,' the case of both parties shall come before God; he whom God shall condemn shall pay double to his neighbor.
    10: "If a man delivers to his neighbor an ass or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep, and it dies or is hurt or is driven away, without any one seeing it,
    11: an oath by the LORD shall be between them both to see whether he has not put his hand to his neighbor's property; and the owner shall accept the oath, and he shall not make restitution.
    12: But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner.
    13: If it is torn by beasts, let him bring it as evidence; he shall not make restitution for what has been torn.
    14: "If a man borrows anything of his neighbor, and it is hurt or dies, the owner not being with it, he shall make full restitution.
    15: If the owner was with it, he shall not make restitution; if it was hired, it came for its hire.
    16: "If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed, and lies with her, he shall give the marriage present for her, and make her his wife.
    17: If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equivalent to the marriage present for virgins.
    18: "You shall not permit a sorceress to live.
    19: "Whoever lies with a beast shall be put to death.
    20: "Whoever sacrifices to any god, save to the LORD only, shall be utterly destroyed.
    21: "You shall not wrong a stranger or oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.
    22: You shall not afflict any widow or orphan.
    23: If you do afflict them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry;
    24: and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless.
    25: "If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be to him as a creditor, and you shall not exact interest from him.
    26: If ever you take your neighbor's garment in pledge, you shall restore it to him before the sun goes down;
    27: for that is his only covering, it is his mantle for his body; in what else shall he sleep? And if he cries to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate.
    28: "You shall not revile God, nor curse a ruler of your people.
    29: "You shall not delay to offer from the fulness of your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. "The first-born of your sons you shall give to me.
    30: You shall do likewise with your oxen and with your sheep: seven days it shall be with its dam; on the eighth day you shall give it to me.
    31: "You shall be men consecrated to me; therefore you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by beasts in the field; you shall cast it to the dogs.

  Chapter 23.

    1: "You shall not utter a false report. You shall not join hands with a wicked man, to be a malicious witness.
    2: You shall not follow a multitude to do evil; nor shall you bear witness in a suit, turning aside after a multitude, so as to pervert justice;
    3: nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his suit.
    4: "If you meet your enemy's ox or his ass going astray, you shall bring it back to him.
    5: If you see the ass of one who hates you lying under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving him with it, you shall help him to lift it up.
    6: "You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in his suit.
    7: Keep far from a false charge, and do not slay the innocent and righteous, for I will not acquit the wicked.
    8: And you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the officials, and subverts the cause of those who are in the right.
    9: "You shall not oppress a stranger; you know the heart of a stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.
    10: "For six years you shall sow your land and gather in its yield;
    11: but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat; and what they leave the wild beasts may eat. You shall do likewise with your vineyard, and with your olive orchard.
    12: "Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; that your ox and your ass may have rest, and the son of your bondmaid, and the alien, may be refreshed.
    13: Take heed to all that I have said to you; and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let such be heard out of your mouth.
    14: "Three times in the year you shall keep a feast to me.
    15: You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread; as I commanded you, you shall eat unleavened bread for seven days at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for in it you came out of Egypt. None shall appear before me empty-handed.
    16: You shall keep the feast of harvest, of the first fruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field. You shall keep the feast of ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in from the field the fruit of your labor.
    17: Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord GOD.
    18: "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, or let the fat of my feast remain until the morning.
    19: "The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of the LORD your God. "You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
    20: "Behold, I send an angel before you, to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place which I have prepared.
    21: Give heed to him and hearken to his voice, do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression; for my name is in him.
    22: "But if you hearken attentively to his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries.
    23: "When my angel goes before you, and brings you in to the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Per'izzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites, and I blot them out,
    24: you shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do according to their works, but you shall utterly overthrow them and break their pillars in pieces.
    25: You shall serve the LORD your God, and I will bless your bread and your water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of you.
    26: None shall cast her young or be barren in your land; I will fulfil the number of your days.
    27: I will send my terror before you, and will throw into confusion all the people against whom you shall come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you.
    28: And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out Hivite, Canaanite, and Hittite from before you.
    29: I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the wild beasts multiply against you.
    30: Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you are increased and possess the land.
    31: And I will set your bounds from the Red Sea to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the Euphra'tes; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you.
    32: You shall make no covenant with them or with their gods.
    33: They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you."

  Chapter 24.

    1: And he said to Moses, "Come up to the LORD, you and Aaron, Nadab, and Abi'hu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship afar off.
    2: Moses alone shall come near to the LORD; but the others shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him."
    3: Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, and said, "All the words which the LORD has spoken we will do."
    4: And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD. And he rose early in the morning, and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
    5: And he sent young men of the people of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the LORD.
    6: And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar.
    7: Then he took the book of the covenant, and read it in the hearing of the people; and they said, "All that the LORD has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient."
    8: And Moses took the blood and threw it upon the people, and said, "Behold the blood of the covenant which the LORD has made with you in accordance with all these words."
    9: Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab, and Abi'hu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up,
    10: and they saw the God of Israel; and there was under his feet as it were a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness.
    11: And he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel; they beheld God, and ate and drank.
    12: The LORD said to Moses, "Come up to me on the mountain, and wait there; and I will give you the tables of stone, with the law and the commandment, which I have written for their instruction."
    13: So Moses rose with his servant Joshua, and Moses went up into the mountain of God.
    14: And he said to the elders, "Tarry here for us, until we come to you again; and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you; whoever has a cause, let him go to them."
    15: Then Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
    16: The glory of the LORD settled on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days; and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
    17: Now the appearance of the glory of the LORD was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel.
    18: And Moses entered the cloud, and went up on the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.

End of day 19.