Day 292:

Reading Mark, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Ger'asenes.
    2: And when he had come out of the boat, there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
    3: who lived among the tombs; and no one could bind him any more, even with a chain;
    4: for he had often been bound with fetters and chains, but the chains he wrenched apart, and the fetters he broke in pieces; and no one had the strength to subdue him.
    5: Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out, and bruising himself with stones.
    6: And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and worshiped him;
    7: and crying out with a loud voice, he said, "What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me."
    8: For he had said to him, "Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!"
    9: And Jesus asked him, "What is your name?" He replied, "My name is Legion; for we are many."
    10: And he begged him eagerly not to send them out of the country.
    11: Now a great herd of swine was feeding there on the hillside;
    12: and they begged him, "Send us to the swine, let us enter them."
    13: So he gave them leave. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered the swine; and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and were drowned in the sea.
    14: The herdsmen fled, and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that had happened.
    15: And they came to Jesus, and saw the demoniac sitting there, clothed and in his right mind, the man who had had the legion; and they were afraid.
    16: And those who had seen it told what had happened to the demoniac and to the swine.
    17: And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their neighborhood.
    18: And as he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him.
    19: But he refused, and said to him, "Go home to your friends, and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you."
    20: And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decap'olis how much Jesus had done for him; and all men marveled.
    21: And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him; and he was beside the sea.
    22: Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Ja'irus by name; and seeing him, he fell at his feet,
    23: and besought him, saying, "My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well, and live."
    24: And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.
    25: And there was a woman who had had a flow of blood for twelve years,
    26: and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better but rather grew worse.
    27: She had heard the reports about Jesus, and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment.
    28: For she said, "If I touch even his garments, I shall be made well."
    29: And immediately the hemorrhage ceased; and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease.
    30: And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone forth from him, immediately turned about in the crowd, and said, "Who touched my garments?"
    31: And his disciples said to him, "You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, `Who touched me?'"
    32: And he looked around to see who had done it.
    33: But the woman, knowing what had been done to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before him, and told him the whole truth.
    34: And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your disease."
    35: While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, "Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?"
    36: But ignoring what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, "Do not fear, only believe."
    37: And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
    38: When they came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, he saw a tumult, and people weeping and wailing loudly.
    39: And when he had entered, he said to them, "Why do you make a tumult and weep? The child is not dead but sleeping."
    40: And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside, and took the child's father and mother and those who were with him, and went in where the child was.
    41: Taking her by the hand he said to her, "Tal'itha cu'mi"; which means, "Little girl, I say to you, arise."
    42: And immediately the girl got up and walked (she was twelve years of age), and they were immediately overcome with amazement.
    43: And he strictly charged them that no one should know this, and told them to give her something to eat.

  Chapter 6.

    1: He went away from there and came to his own country; and his disciples followed him.
    2: And on the sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue; and many who heard him were astonished, saying, "Where did this man get all this? What is the wisdom given to him? What mighty works are wrought by his hands!
    3: Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon, and are not his sisters here with us?" And they took offense at him.
    4: And Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house."
    5: And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands upon a few sick people and healed them.
    6: And he marveled because of their unbelief. And he went about among the villages teaching.
    7: And he called to him the twelve, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits.
    8: He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff; no bread, no bag, no money in their belts;
    9: but to wear sandals and not put on two tunics.
    10: And he said to them, "Where you enter a house, stay there until you leave the place.
    11: And if any place will not receive you and they refuse to hear you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet for a testimony against them."
    12: So they went out and preached that men should repent.
    13: And they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many that were sick and healed them.
    14: King Herod heard of it; for Jesus' name had become known. Some said, "John the baptizer has been raised from the dead; that is why these powers are at work in him."
    15: But others said, "It is Eli'jah." And others said, "It is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old."
    16: But when Herod heard of it he said, "John, whom I beheaded, has been raised."
    17: For Herod had sent and seized John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Hero'di-as, his brother Philip's wife; because he had married her.
    18: For John said to Herod, "It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife."
    19: And Hero'di-as had a grudge against him, and wanted to kill him. But she could not,
    20: for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. When he heard him, he was much perplexed; and yet he heard him gladly.
    21: But an opportunity came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his courtiers and officers and the leading men of Galilee.
    22: For when Hero'di-as' daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests; and the king said to the girl, "Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will grant it."
    23: And he vowed to her, "Whatever you ask me, I will give you, even half of my kingdom."
    24: And she went out, and said to her mother, "What shall I ask?" And she said, "The head of John the baptizer."
    25: And she came in immediately with haste to the king, and asked, saying, "I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter."
    26: And the king was exceedingly sorry; but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break his word to her.
    27: And immediately the king sent a soldier of the guard and gave orders to bring his head. He went and beheaded him in the prison,
    28: and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl; and the girl gave it to her mother.
    29: When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body, and laid it in a tomb.
    30: The apostles returned to Jesus, and told him all that they had done and taught.
    31: And he said to them, "Come away by yourselves to a lonely place, and rest a while." For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.
    32: And they went away in the boat to a lonely place by themselves.
    33: Now many saw them going, and knew them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns, and got there ahead of them.
    34: As he went ashore he saw a great throng, and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd; and he began to teach them many things.
    35: And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, "This is a lonely place, and the hour is now late;
    36: send them away, to go into the country and villages round about and buy themselves something to eat."
    37: But he answered them, "You give them something to eat." And they said to him, "Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread, and give it to them to eat?"
    38: And he said to them, "How many loaves have you? Go and see." And when they had found out, they said, "Five, and two fish."
    39: Then he commanded them all to sit down by companies upon the green grass.
    40: So they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
    41: And taking the five loaves and the two fish he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before the people; and he divided the two fish among them all.
    42: And they all ate and were satisfied.
    43: And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.
    44: And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
    45: Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Beth-sa'ida, while he dismissed the crowd.
    46: And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray.
    47: And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land.
    48: And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them,
    49: but when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out;
    50: for they all saw him, and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, "Take heart, it is I; have no fear."
    51: And he got into the boat with them and the wind ceased. And they were utterly astounded,
    52: for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
    53: And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennes'aret, and moored to the shore.
    54: And when they got out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him,
    55: and ran about the whole neighborhood and began to bring sick people on their pallets to any place where they heard he was.
    56: And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or country, they laid the sick in the market places, and besought him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment; and as many as touched it were made well.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now when the Pharisees gathered together to him, with some of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem,
    2: they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands defiled, that is, unwashed.
    3: (For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, do not eat unless they wash their hands, observing the tradition of the elders;
    4: and when they come from the market place, they do not eat unless they purify themselves; and there are many other traditions which they observe, the washing of cups and pots and vessels of bronze.)
    5: And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, "Why do your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with hands defiled?"
    6: And he said to them, "Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, `This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
    7: in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men.'
    8: You leave the commandment of God, and hold fast the tradition of men."
    9: And he said to them, "You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God, in order to keep your tradition!
    10: For Moses said, `Honor your father and your mother'; and, `He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him surely die';
    11: but you say, `If a man tells his father or his mother, What you would have gained from me is Corban' (that is, given to God) --
    12: then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother,
    13: thus making void the word of God through your tradition which you hand on. And many such things you do."
    14: And he called the people to him again, and said to them, "Hear me, all of you, and understand:
    15: there is nothing outside a man which by going into him can defile him; but the things which come out of a man are what defile him."
    16: And when he had entered the house, and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable.
    17: And he said to them, "Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a man from outside cannot defile him,
    18: since it enters, not his heart but his stomach, and so passes on?" (Thus he declared all foods clean.)
    19: And he said, "What comes out of a man is what defiles a man.
    20: For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, fornication, theft, murder, adultery,
    21: coveting, wickedness, deceit, licentiousness, envy, slander, pride, foolishness.
    22: All these evil things come from within, and they defile a man."
    23: And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house, and would not have any one know it; yet he could not be hid.
    24: But immediately a woman, whose little daughter was possessed by an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell down at his feet.
    25: Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoeni'cian by birth. And she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
    26: And he said to her, "Let the children first be fed, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."
    27: But she answered him, "Yes, Lord; yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs."
    28: And he said to her, "For this saying you may go your way; the demon has left your daughter."
    29: And she went home, and found the child lying in bed, and the demon gone.
    30: Then he returned from the region of Tyre, and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, through the region of the Decap'olis.
    31: And they brought to him a man who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech; and they besought him to lay his hand upon him.
    32: And taking him aside from the multitude privately, he put his fingers into his ears, and he spat and touched his tongue;
    33: and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him, "Eph'phatha," that is, "Be opened."
    34: And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly.
    35: And he charged them to tell no one; but the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it.
    36: And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well; he even makes the deaf hear and the dumb speak."

  Chapter 8.

    1: In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered, and they had nothing to eat, he called his disciples to him, and said to them,
    2: "I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days, and have nothing to eat;
    3: and if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way; and some of them have come a long way."
    4: And his disciples answered him, "How can one feed these men with bread here in the desert?"
    5: And he asked them, "How many loaves have you?" They said, "Seven."
    6: And he commanded the crowd to sit down on the ground; and he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people; and they set them before the crowd.
    7: And they had a few small fish; and having blessed them, he commanded that these also should be set before them.
    8: And they ate, and were satisfied; and they took up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full.
    9: And there were about four thousand people.
    10: And he sent them away; and immediately he got into the boat with his disciples, and went to the district of Dalmanu'tha.
    11: The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, to test him.
    12: And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and said, "Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly, I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation."
    13: And he left them, and getting into the boat again he departed to the other side.
    14: Now they had forgotten to bring bread; and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
    15: And he cautioned them, saying, "Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod."
    16: And they discussed it with one another, saying, "We have no bread."
    17: And being aware of it, Jesus said to them, "Why do you discuss the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened?
    18: Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember?
    19: When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" They said to him, "Twelve."
    20: "And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" And they said to him, "Seven."
    21: And he said to them, "Do you not yet understand?"
    22: And they came to Beth-sa'ida. And some people brought to him a blind man, and begged him to touch him.
    23: And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the village; and when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands upon him, he asked him, "Do you see anything?"
    24: And he looked up and said, "I see men; but they look like trees, walking."
    25: Then again he laid his hands upon his eyes; and he looked intently and was restored, and saw everything clearly.
    26: And he sent him away to his home, saying, "Do not even enter the village."
    27: And Jesus went on with his disciples, to the villages of Caesare'a Philip'pi; and on the way he asked his disciples, "Who do men say that I am?"
    28: And they told him, "John the Baptist; and others say, Eli'jah; and others one of the prophets."
    29: And he asked them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered him, "You are the Christ."
    30: And he charged them to tell no one about him.
    31: And he began to teach them that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
    32: And he said this plainly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.
    33: But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter, and said, "Get behind me, Satan! For you are not on the side of God, but of men."
    34: And he called to him the multitude with his disciples, and said to them, "If any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
    35: For whoever would save his life will lose it; and whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
    36: For what does it profit a man, to gain the whole world and forfeit his life?
    37: For what can a man give in return for his life?
    38: For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of man also be ashamed, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels."

End of day 292.