Day 12:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him; and he cried, "Make every one go out from me." So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
    2: And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it.
    3: And Joseph said to his brothers, "I am Joseph; is my father still alive?" But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence.
    4: So Joseph said to his brothers, "Come near to me, I pray you." And they came near. And he said, "I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.
    5: And now do not be distressed, or angry with yourselves, because you sold me here; for God sent me before you to preserve life.
    6: For the famine has been in the land these two years; and there are yet five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest.
    7: And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors.
    8: So it was not you who sent me here, but God; and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
    9: Make haste and go up to my father and say to him, `Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me lord of all Egypt; come down to me, do not tarry;
    10: you shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have;
    11: and there I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come; lest you and your household, and all that you have, come to poverty.'
    12: And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth that speaks to you.
    13: You must tell my father of all my splendor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Make haste and bring my father down here."
    14: Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
    15: And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them; and after that his brothers talked with him.
    16: When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, "Joseph's brothers have come," it pleased Pharaoh and his servants well.
    17: And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Say to your brothers, `Do this: load your beasts and go back to the land of Canaan;
    18: and take your father and your households, and come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat the fat of the land.'
    19: Command them also, `Do this: take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.
    20: Give no thought to your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.'"
    21: The sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey.
    22: To each and all of them he gave festal garments; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels of silver and five festal garments.
    23: To his father he sent as follows: ten asses loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten she-asses loaded with grain, bread, and provision for his father on the journey.
    24: Then he sent his brothers away, and as they departed, he said to them, "Do not quarrel on the way."
    25: So they went up out of Egypt, and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob.
    26: And they told him, "Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt." And his heart fainted, for he did not believe them.
    27: But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived;
    28: and Israel said, "It is enough; Joseph my son is still alive; I will go and see him before I die."

  Chapter 46.

    1: So Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
    2: And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night, and said, "Jacob, Jacob." And he said, "Here am I."
    3: Then he said, "I am God, the God of your father; do not be afraid to go down to Egypt; for I will there make of you a great nation.
    4: I will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also bring you up again; and Joseph's hand shall close your eyes."
    5: Then Jacob set out from Beer-sheba; and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
    6: They also took their cattle and their goods, which they had gained in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his offspring with him,
    7: his sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters; all his offspring he brought with him into Egypt.
    8: Now these are the names of the descendants of Israel, who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons. Reuben, Jacob's first-born,
    9: and the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
    10: The sons of Simeon: Jemu'el, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanitish woman.
    11: The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merar'i.
    12: The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah (but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan); and the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.
    13: The sons of Is'sachar: Tola, Puvah, Iob, and Shimron.
    14: The sons of Zeb'ulun: Sered, Elon, and Jah'leel
    15: (these are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, together with his daughter Dinah; altogether his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three).
    16: The sons of Gad: Ziph'ion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Aro'di, and Are'li.
    17: The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beri'ah, with Serah their sister. And the sons of Beri'ah: Heber and Mal'chi-el
    18: (these are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bore to Jacob -- sixteen persons).
    19: The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
    20: And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manas'seh and E'phraim, whom As'enath, the daughter of Poti'phera the priest of On, bore to him.
    21: And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Na'aman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard
    22: (these are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob -- fourteen persons in all).
    23: The sons of Dan: Hushim.
    24: The sons of Naph'tali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem
    25: (these are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob -- seven persons in all).
    26: All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt, who were his own offspring, not including Jacob's sons' wives, were sixty-six persons in all;
    27: and the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two; all the persons of the house of Jacob, that came into Egypt, were seventy.
    28: He sent Judah before him to Joseph, to appear before him in Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
    29: Then Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father in Goshen; and he presented himself to him, and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
    30: Israel said to Joseph, "Now let me die, since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive."
    31: Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, "I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and will say to him, `My brothers and my father's household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me;
    32: and the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.'
    33: When Pharaoh calls you, and says, `What is your occupation?'
    34: you shall say, `Your servants have been keepers of cattle from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers,' in order that you may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians."

  Chapter 47.

    1: So Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, "My father and my brothers, with their flocks and herds and all that they possess, have come from the land of Canaan; they are now in the land of Goshen."
    2: And from among his brothers he took five men and presented them to Pharaoh.
    3: Pharaoh said to his brothers, "What is your occupation?" And they said to Pharaoh, "Your servants are shepherds, as our fathers were."
    4: They said to Pharaoh, "We have come to sojourn in the land; for there is no pasture for your servants' flocks, for the famine is severe in the land of Canaan; and now, we pray you, let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen."
    5: Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Your father and your brothers have come to you.
    6: The land of Egypt is before you; settle your father and your brothers in the best of the land; let them dwell in the land of Goshen; and if you know any able men among them, put them in charge of my cattle."
    7: Then Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
    8: And Pharaoh said to Jacob, "How many are the days of the years of your life?"
    9: And Jacob said to Pharaoh, "The days of the years of my sojourning are a hundred and thirty years; few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their sojourning."
    10: And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from the presence of Pharaoh.
    11: Then Joseph settled his father and his brothers, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Ram'eses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
    12: And Joseph provided his father, his brothers, and all his father's household with food, according to the number of their dependents.
    13: Now there was no food in all the land; for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished by reason of the famine.
    14: And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, for the grain which they bought; and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.
    15: And when the money was all spent in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph, and said, "Give us food; why should we die before your eyes? For our money is gone."
    16: And Joseph answered, "Give your cattle, and I will give you food in exchange for your cattle, if your money is gone."
    17: So they brought their cattle to Joseph; and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the herds, and the asses: and he supplied them with food in exchange for all their cattle that year.
    18: And when that year was ended, they came to him the following year, and said to him, "We will not hide from my lord that our money is all spent; and the herds of cattle are my lord's; there is nothing left in the sight of my lord but our bodies and our lands.
    19: Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for food, and we with our land will be slaves to Pharaoh; and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, and that the land may not be desolate."
    20: So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for all the Egyptians sold their fields, because the famine was severe upon them. The land became Pharaoh's;
    21: and as for the people, he made slaves of them from one end of Egypt to the other.
    22: Only the land of the priests he did not buy; for the priests had a fixed allowance from Pharaoh, and lived on the allowance which Pharaoh gave them; therefore they did not sell their land.
    23: Then Joseph said to the people, "Behold, I have this day bought you and your land for Pharaoh. Now here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land.
    24: And at the harvests you shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, and four fifths shall be your own, as seed for the field and as food for yourselves and your households, and as food for your little ones."
    25: And they said, "You have saved our lives; may it please my lord, we will be slaves to Pharaoh."
    26: So Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt, and it stands to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth; the land of the priests alone did not become Pharaoh's.
    27: Thus Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen; and they gained possessions in it, and were fruitful and multiplied exceedingly.
    28: And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years; so the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were a hundred and forty-seven years.
    29: And when the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, "If now I have found favor in your sight, put your hand under my thigh, and promise to deal loyally and truly with me. Do not bury me in Egypt,
    30: but let me lie with my fathers; carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burying place." He answered, "I will do as you have said."
    31: And he said, "Swear to me"; and he swore to him. Then Israel bowed himself upon the head of his bed.

  Chapter 48.

    1: After this Joseph was told, "Behold, your father is ill"; so he took with him his two sons, Manas'seh and E'phraim.
    2: And it was told to Jacob, "Your son Joseph has come to you"; then Israel summoned his strength, and sat up in bed.
    3: And Jacob said to Joseph, "God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me,
    4: and said to me, `Behold, I will make you fruitful, and multiply you, and I will make of you a company of peoples, and will give this land to your descendants after you for an everlasting possession.'
    5: And now your two sons, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine; E'phraim and Manas'seh shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are.
    6: And the offspring born to you after them shall be yours; they shall be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
    7: For when I came from Paddan, Rachel to my sorrow died in the land of Canaan on the way, when there was still some distance to go to Ephrath; and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem)."
    8: When Israel saw Joseph's sons, he said, "Who are these?"
    9: Joseph said to his father, "They are my sons, whom God has given me here." And he said, "Bring them to me, I pray you, that I may bless them."
    10: Now the eyes of Israel were dim with age, so that he could not see. So Joseph brought them near him; and he kissed them and embraced them.
    11: And Israel said to Joseph, "I had not thought to see your face; and lo, God has let me see your children also."
    12: Then Joseph removed them from his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
    13: And Joseph took them both, E'phraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manas'seh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near him.
    14: And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon the head of E'phraim, who was the younger, and his left hand upon the head of Manas'seh, crossing his hands, for Manas'seh was the first-born.
    15: And he blessed Joseph, and said, "The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has led me all my life long to this day,
    16: the angel who has redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and in them let my name be perpetuated, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth."
    17: When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of E'phraim, it displeased him; and he took his father's hand, to remove it from E'phraim's head to Manas'seh's head.
    18: And Joseph said to his father, "Not so, my father; for this one is the first-born; put your right hand upon his head."
    19: But his father refused, and said, "I know, my son, I know; he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great; nevertheless his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his descendants shall become a multitude of nations."
    20: So he blessed them that day, saying, "By you Israel will pronounce blessings, saying, `God make you as E'phraim and as Manas'seh'";
    21: Then Israel said to Joseph, "Behold, I am about to die, but God will be with you, and will bring you again to the land of your fathers.
    22: Moreover I have given to you rather than to your brothers one mountain slope which I took from the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my bow."

End of day 12.