Day 142:

Reading Job, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: "At this also my heart trembles, and leaps out of its place.
    2: Hearken to the thunder of his voice and the rumbling that comes from his mouth.
    3: Under the whole heaven he lets it go, and his lightning to the corners of the earth.
    4: After it his voice roars; he thunders with his majestic voice and he does not restrain the lightnings when his voice is heard.
    5: God thunders wondrously with his voice; he does great things which we cannot comprehend.
    6: For to the snow he says, `Fall on the earth'; and to the shower and the rain, `Be strong.'
    7: He seals up the hand of every man, that all men may know his work.
    8: Then the beasts go into their lairs, and remain in their dens.
    9: From its chamber comes the whirlwind, and cold from the scattering winds.
    10: By the breath of God ice is given, and the broad waters are frozen fast.
    11: He loads the thick cloud with moisture; the clouds scatter his lightning.
    12: They turn round and round by his guidance, to accomplish all that he commands them on the face of the habitable world.
    13: Whether for correction, or for his land, or for love, he causes it to happen.
    14: "Hear this, O Job; stop and consider the wondrous works of God.
    15: Do you know how God lays his command upon them, and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
    16: Do you know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge,
    17: you whose garments are hot when the earth is still because of the south wind?
    18: Can you, like him, spread out the skies, hard as a molten mirror?
    19: Teach us what we shall say to him; we cannot draw up our case because of darkness.
    20: Shall it be told him that I would speak? Did a man ever wish that he would be swallowed up?
    21: "And now men cannot look on the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and cleared them.
    22: Out of the north comes golden splendor; God is clothed with terrible majesty.
    23: The Almighty -- we cannot find him; he is great in power and justice, and abundant righteousness he will not violate.
    24: Therefore men fear him; he does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit."

  Chapter 38.

    1: Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind:
    2: "Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
    3: Gird up your loins like a man, I will question you, and you shall declare to me.
    4: "Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding.
    5: Who determined its measurements -- surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it?
    6: On what were its bases sunk, or who laid its cornerstone,
    7: when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
    8: "Or who shut in the sea with doors, when it burst forth from the womb;
    9: when I made clouds its garment, and thick darkness its swaddling band,
    10: and prescribed bounds for it, and set bars and doors,
    11: and said, `Thus far shall you come, and no farther, and here shall your proud waves be stayed'?
    12: "Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place,
    13: that it might take hold of the skirts of the earth, and the wicked be shaken out of it?
    14: It is changed like clay under the seal, and it is dyed like a garment.
    15: From the wicked their light is withheld, and their uplifted arm is broken.
    16: "Have you entered into the springs of the sea, or walked in the recesses of the deep?
    17: Have the gates of death been revealed to you, or have you seen the gates of deep darkness?
    18: Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare, if you know all this.
    19: "Where is the way to the dwelling of light, and where is the place of darkness,
    20: that you may take it to its territory and that you may discern the paths to its home?
    21: You know, for you were born then, and the number of your days is great!
    22: "Have you entered the storehouses of the snow, or have you seen the storehouses of the hail,
    23: which I have reserved for the time of trouble, for the day of battle and war?
    24: What is the way to the place where the light is distributed, or where the east wind is scattered upon the earth?
    25: "Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain, and a way for the thunderbolt,
    26: to bring rain on a land where no man is, on the desert in which there is no man;
    27: to satisfy the waste and desolate land, and to make the ground put forth grass?
    28: "Has the rain a father, or who has begotten the drops of dew?
    29: From whose womb did the ice come forth, and who has given birth to the hoarfrost of heaven?
    30: The waters become hard like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.
    31: "Can you bind the chains of the Plei'ades, or loose the cords of Orion?
    32: Can you lead forth the Maz'zaroth in their season, or can you guide the Bear with its children?
    33: Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule on the earth?
    34: "Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, that a flood of waters may cover you?
    35: Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go and say to you, `Here we are'?
    36: Who has put wisdom in the clouds, or given understanding to the mists?
    37: Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can tilt the waterskins of the heavens,
    38: when the dust runs into a mass and the clods cleave fast together?
    39: "Can you hunt the prey for the lion, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
    40: when they crouch in their dens, or lie in wait in their covert?
    41: Who provides for the raven its prey, when its young ones cry to God, and wander about for lack of food?

  Chapter 39.

    1: "Do you know when the mountain goats bring forth? Do you observe the calving of the hinds?
    2: Can you number the months that they fulfil, and do you know the time when they bring forth,
    3: when they crouch, bring forth their offspring, and are delivered of their young?
    4: Their young ones become strong, they grow up in the open; they go forth, and do not return to them.
    5: "Who has let the wild ass go free? Who has loosed the bonds of the swift ass,
    6: to whom I have given the steppe for his home, and the salt land for his dwelling place?
    7: He scorns the tumult of the city; he hears not the shouts of the driver.
    8: He ranges the mountains as his pasture, and he searches after every green thing.
    9: "Is the wild ox willing to serve you? Will he spend the night at your crib?
    10: Can you bind him in the furrow with ropes, or will he harrow the valleys after you?
    11: Will you depend on him because his strength is great, and will you leave to him your labor?
    12: Do you have faith in him that he will return, and bring your grain to your threshing floor?
    13: "The wings of the ostrich wave proudly; but are they the pinions and plumage of love?
    14: For she leaves her eggs to the earth, and lets them be warmed on the ground,
    15: forgetting that a foot may crush them, and that the wild beast may trample them.
    16: She deals cruelly with her young, as if they were not hers; though her labor be in vain, yet she has no fear;
    17: because God has made her forget wisdom, and given her no share in understanding.
    18: When she rouses herself to flee, she laughs at the horse and his rider.
    19: "Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with strength?
    20: Do you make him leap like the locust? His majestic snorting is terrible.
    21: He paws in the valley, and exults in his strength; he goes out to meet the weapons.
    22: He laughs at fear, and is not dismayed; he does not turn back from the sword.
    23: Upon him rattle the quiver, the flashing spear and the javelin.
    24: With fierceness and rage he swallows the ground; he cannot stand still at the sound of the trumpet.
    25: When the trumpet sounds, he says `Aha!' He smells the battle from afar, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.
    26: "Is it by your wisdom that the hawk soars, and spreads his wings toward the south?
    27: Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up and makes his nest on high?
    28: On the rock he dwells and makes his home in the fastness of the rocky crag.
    29: Thence he spies out the prey; his eyes behold it afar off.
    30: His young ones suck up blood; and where the slain are, there is he."

  Chapter 40.

    1: And the LORD said to Job:
    2: "Shall a faultfinder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it."
    3: Then Job answered the LORD:
    4: "Behold, I am of small account; what shall I answer thee? I lay my hand on my mouth.
    5: I have spoken once, and I will not answer; twice, but I will proceed no further."
    6: Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind:
    7: "Gird up your loins like a man; I will question you, and you declare to me.
    8: Will you even put me in the wrong? Will you condemn me that you may be justified?
    9: Have you an arm like God, and can you thunder with a voice like his?
    10: "Deck yourself with majesty and dignity; clothe yourself with glory and splendor.
    11: Pour forth the overflowings of your anger, and look on every one that is proud, and abase him.
    12: Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread down the wicked where they stand.
    13: Hide them all in the dust together; bind their faces in the world below.
    14: Then will I also acknowledge to you, that your own right hand can give you victory.
    15: "Behold, Be'hemoth, which I made as I made you; he eats grass like an ox.
    16: Behold, his strength in his loins, and his power in the muscles of his belly.
    17: He makes his tail stiff like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs are knit together.
    18: His bones are tubes of bronze, his limbs like bars of iron.
    19: "He is the first of the works of God; let him who made him bring near his sword!
    20: For the mountains yield food for him where all the wild beasts play.
    21: Under the lotus plants he lies, in the covert of the reeds and in the marsh.
    22: For his shade the lotus trees cover him; the willows of the brook surround him.
    23: Behold, if the river is turbulent he is not frightened; he is confident though Jordan rushes against his mouth.
    24: Can one take him with hooks, or pierce his nose with a snare?

End of day 142.