Day 34:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which I give to the people of Israel; from each tribe of their fathers shall you send a man, every one a leader among them."
    3: So Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran, according to the command of the LORD, all of them men who were heads of the people of Israel.
    4: And these were their names: From the tribe of Reuben, Sham'mu-a the son of Zaccur;
    5: from the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
    6: from the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephun'neh;
    7: from the tribe of Is'sachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
    8: from the tribe of E'phraim, Hoshe'a the son of Nun;
    9: from the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
    10: from the tribe of Zeb'ulun, Gad'diel the son of Sodi;
    11: from the tribe of Joseph (that is from the tribe of Manas'seh), Gaddi the son of Susi;
    12: from the tribe of Dan, Am'miel the son of Gemal'li;
    13: from the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
    14: from the tribe of Naph'tali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
    15: from the tribe of Gad, Geu'el the son of Machi.
    16: These were the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshe'a the son of Nun Joshua.
    17: Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said to them, "Go up into the Negeb yonder, and go up into the hill country,
    18: and see what the land is, and whether the people who dwell in it are strong or weak, whether they are few or many,
    19: and whether the land that they dwell in is good or bad, and whether the cities that they dwell in are camps or strongholds,
    20: and whether the land is rich or poor, and whether there is wood in it or not. Be of good courage, and bring some of the fruit of the land." Now the time was the season of the first ripe grapes.
    21: So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, near the entrance of Hamath.
    22: They went up into the Negeb, and came to Hebron; and Ahi'man, She'shai, and Talmai, the descendants of Anak, were there. (Hebron was built seven years before Zo'an in Egypt.)
    23: And they came to the Valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with a single cluster of grapes, and they carried it on a pole between two of them; they brought also some pomegranates and figs.
    24: That place was called the Valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the men of Israel cut down from there.
    25: At the end of forty days they returned from spying out the land.
    26: And they came to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation of the people of Israel in the wilderness of Paran, at Kadesh; they brought back word to them and to all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land.
    27: And they told him, "We came to the land to which you sent us; it flows with milk and honey, and this is its fruit.
    28: Yet the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large; and besides, we saw the descendants of Anak there.
    29: The Amal'ekites dwell in the land of the Negeb; the Hittites, the Jeb'usites, and the Amorites dwell in the hill country; and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and along the Jordan."
    30: But Caleb quieted the people before Moses, and said, "Let us go up at once, and occupy it; for we are well able to overcome it."
    31: Then the men who had gone up with him said, "We are not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we."
    32: So they brought to the people of Israel an evil report of the land which they had spied out, saying, "The land, through which we have gone, to spy it out, is a land that devours its inhabitants; and all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature.
    33: And there we saw the Nephilim (the sons of Anak, who come from the Nephilim); and we seemed to ourselves like grasshoppers, and so we seemed to them."

  Chapter 14.

    1: Then all the congregation raised a loud cry; and the people wept that night.
    2: And all the people of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron; the whole congregation said to them, "Would that we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would that we had died in this wilderness!
    3: Why does the LORD bring us into this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become a prey; would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt?"
    4: And they said to one another, "Let us choose a captain, and go back to Egypt."
    5: Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the people of Israel.
    6: And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephun'neh, who were among those who had spied out the land, rent their clothes,
    7: and said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, "The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceedingly good land.
    8: If the LORD delights in us, he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which flows with milk and honey.
    9: Only, do not rebel against the LORD; and do not fear the people of the land, for they are bread for us; their protection is removed from them, and the LORD is with us; do not fear them."
    10: But all the congregation said to stone them with stones. Then the glory of the LORD appeared at the tent of meeting to all the people of Israel.
    11: And the LORD said to Moses, "How long will this people despise me? And how long will they not believe in me, in spite of all the signs which I have wrought among them?
    12: I will strike them with the pestilence and disinherit them, and I will make of you a nation greater and mightier than they."
    13: But Moses said to the LORD, "Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for thou didst bring up this people in thy might from among them,
    14: and they will tell the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that thou, O LORD, art in the midst of this people; for thou, O LORD, art seen face to face, and thy cloud stands over them and thou goest before them, in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night.
    15: Now if thou dost kill this people as one man, then the nations who have heard thy fame will say,
    16: `Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which he swore to give to them, therefore he has slain them in the wilderness.'
    17: And now, I pray thee, let the power of the LORD be great as thou hast promised, saying,
    18: `The LORD is slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, forgiving iniquity and transgression, but he will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of fathers upon children, upon the third and upon the fourth generation.'
    19: Pardon the iniquity of this people, I pray thee, according to the greatness of thy steadfast love, and according as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now."
    20: Then the LORD said, "I have pardoned, according to your word;
    21: but truly, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD,
    22: none of the men who have seen my glory and my signs which I wrought in Egypt and in the wilderness, and yet have put me to the proof these ten times and have not hearkened to my voice,
    23: shall see the land which I swore to give to their fathers; and none of those who despised me shall see it.
    24: But my servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit and has followed me fully, I will bring into the land into which he went, and his descendants shall possess it.
    25: Now, since the Amal'ekites and the Canaanites dwell in the valleys, turn tomorrow and set out for the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea."
    26: And the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron,
    27: "How long shall this wicked congregation murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the people of Israel, which they murmur against me.
    28: Say to them, `As I live,' says the LORD, `what you have said in my hearing I will do to you:
    29: your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness; and of all your number, numbered from twenty years old and upward, who have murmured against me,
    30: not one shall come into the land where I swore that I would make you dwell, except Caleb the son of Jephun'neh and Joshua the son of Nun.
    31: But your little ones, who you said would become a prey, I will bring in, and they shall know the land which you have despised.
    32: But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
    33: And your children shall be shepherds in the wilderness forty years, and shall suffer for your faithlessness, until the last of your dead bodies lies in the wilderness.
    34: According to the number of the days in which you spied out the land, forty days, for every day a year, you shall bear your iniquity, forty years, and you shall know my displeasure.'
    35: I, the LORD, have spoken; surely this will I do to all this wicked congregation that are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall come to a full end, and there they shall die."
    36: And the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land, and who returned and made all the congregation to murmur against him by bringing up an evil report against the land,
    37: the men who brought up an evil report of the land, died by plague before the LORD.
    38: But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephun'neh remained alive, of those men who went to spy out the land.
    39: And Moses told these words to all the people of Israel, and the people mourned greatly.
    40: And they rose early in the morning, and went up to the heights of the hill country, saying, "See, we are here, we will go up to the place which the LORD has promised; for we have sinned."
    41: But Moses said, "Why now are you transgressing the command of the LORD, for that will not succeed?
    42: Do not go up lest you be struck down before your enemies, for the LORD is not among you.
    43: For there the Amal'ekites and the Canaanites are before you, and you shall fall by the sword; because you have turned back from following the LORD, the LORD will not be with you."
    44: But they presumed to go up to the heights of the hill country, although neither the ark of the covenant of the LORD, nor Moses, departed out of the camp.
    45: Then the Amal'ekites and the Canaanites who dwelt in that hill country came down, and defeated them and pursued them, even to Hormah.

  Chapter 15.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Say to the people of Israel, When you come into the land you are to inhabit, which I give you,
    3: and you offer to the LORD from the herd or from the flock an offering by fire or a burnt offering or a sacrifice, to fulfil a vow or as a freewill offering or at your appointed feasts, to make a pleasing odor to the LORD,
    4: then he who brings his offering shall offer to the LORD a cereal offering of a tenth of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with a fourth of a hin of oil;
    5: and wine for the drink offering, a fourth of a hin, you shall prepare with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
    6: Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a cereal offering two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a third of a hin of oil;
    7: and for the drink offering you shall offer a third of a hin of wine, a pleasing odor to the LORD.
    8: And when you prepare a bull for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, to fulfil a vow, or for peace offerings to the LORD,
    9: then one shall offer with the bull a cereal offering of three tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with half a hin of oil,
    10: and you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, as an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD.
    11: "Thus it shall be done for each bull or ram, or for each of the male lambs or the kids.
    12: According to the number that you prepare, so shall you do with every one according to their number.
    13: All who are native shall do these things in this way, in offering an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD.
    14: And if a stranger is sojourning with you, or any one is among you throughout your generations, and he wishes to offer an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD, he shall do as you do.
    15: For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you, a perpetual statute throughout your generations; as you are, so shall the sojourner be before the LORD.
    16: One law and one ordinance shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you."
    17: The LORD said to Moses,
    18: "Say to the people of Israel, When you come into the land to which I bring you
    19: and when you eat of the food of the land, you shall present an offering to the LORD.
    20: Of the first of your coarse meal you shall present a cake as an offering; as an offering from the threshing floor, so shall you present it.
    21: Of the first of your coarse meal you shall give to the LORD an offering throughout your generations.
    22: "But if you err, and do not observe all these commandments which the LORD has spoken to Moses,
    23: all that the LORD has commanded you by Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations,
    24: then if it was done unwittingly without the knowledge of the congregation, all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt offering, a pleasing odor to the LORD, with its cereal offering and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a sin offering.
    25: And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the people of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; because it was an error, and they have brought their offering, an offering by fire to the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their error.
    26: And all the congregation of the people of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who sojourns among them, because the whole population was involved in the error.
    27: "If one person sins unwittingly, he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering.
    28: And the priest shall make atonement before the LORD for the person who commits an error, when he sins unwittingly, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
    29: You shall have one law for him who does anything unwittingly, for him who is native among the people of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
    30: But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from among his people.
    31: Because he has despised the word of the LORD, and has broken his commandment, that person shall be utterly cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him."
    32: While the people of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the sabbath day.
    33: And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
    34: They put him in custody, because it had not been made plain what should be done to him.
    35: And the LORD said to Moses, "The man shall be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp."
    36: And all the congregation brought him outside the camp, and stoned him to death with stones, as the LORD commanded Moses.
    37: The LORD said to Moses,
    38: "Speak to the people of Israel, and bid them to make tassels on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put upon the tassel of each corner a cord of blue;
    39: and it shall be to you a tassel to look upon and remember all the commandments of the LORD, to do them, not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, which you are inclined to go after wantonly.
    40: So you shall remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
    41: I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God."

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now Korah the son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, and Dathan and Abi'ram the sons of Eli'ab, and On the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben,
    2: took men; and they rose up before Moses, with a number of the people of Israel, two hundred and fifty leaders of the congregation, chosen from the assembly, well-known men;
    3: and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, "You have gone too far! For all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them; why then do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the LORD?"
    4: When Moses heard it, he fell on his face;
    5: and he said to Korah and all his company, "In the morning the LORD will show who is his, and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to him; him whom he will choose he will cause to come near to him.
    6: Do this: take censers, Korah and all his company;
    7: put fire in them and put incense upon them before the LORD tomorrow, and the man whom the LORD chooses shall be the holy one. You have gone too far, sons of Levi!"
    8: And Moses said to Korah, "Hear now, you sons of Levi:
    9: is it too small a thing for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do service in the tabernacle of the LORD, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them;
    10: and that he has brought you near him, and all your brethren the sons of Levi with you? And would you seek the priesthood also?
    11: Therefore it is against the LORD that you and all your company have gathered together; what is Aaron that you murmur against him?"
    12: And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abi'ram the sons of Eli'ab; and they said, "We will not come up.
    13: Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, that you must also make yourself a prince over us?
    14: Moreover you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up."
    15: And Moses was very angry, and said to the LORD, "Do not respect their offering. I have not taken one ass from them, and I have not harmed one of them."
    16: And Moses said to Korah, "Be present, you and all your company, before the LORD, you and they, and Aaron, tomorrow;
    17: and let every one of you take his censer, and put incense upon it, and every one of you bring before the LORD his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; you also, and Aaron, each his censer."
    18: So every man took his censer, and they put fire in them and laid incense upon them, and they stood at the entrance of the tent of meeting with Moses and Aaron.
    19: Then Korah assembled all the congregation against them at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the congregation.
    20: And the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron,
    21: "Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment."
    22: And they fell on their faces, and said, "O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be angry with all the congregation?"
    23: And the LORD said to Moses,
    24: "Say to the congregation, Get away from about the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abi'ram."
    25: Then Moses rose and went to Dathan and Abi'ram; and the elders of Israel followed him.
    26: And he said to the congregation, "Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be swept away with all their sins."
    27: So they got away from about the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abi'ram; and Dathan and Abi'ram came out and stood at the door of their tents, together with their wives, their sons, and their little ones.
    28: And Moses said, "Hereby you shall know that the LORD has sent me to do all these works, and that it has not been of my own accord.
    29: If these men die the common death of all men, or if they are visited by the fate of all men, then the LORD has not sent me.
    30: But if the LORD creates something new, and the ground opens its mouth, and swallows them up, with all that belongs to them, and they go down alive into Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised the LORD."
    31: And as he finished speaking all these words, the ground under them split asunder;
    32: and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, with their households and all the men that belonged to Korah and all their goods.
    33: So they and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol; and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly.
    34: And all Israel that were round about them fled at their cry; for they said, "Lest the earth swallow us up!"
    35: And fire came forth from the LORD, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men offering the incense.
    36: Then the LORD said to Moses,
    37: "Tell Elea'zar the son of Aaron the priest to take up the censers out of the blaze; then scatter the fire far and wide. For they are holy,
    38: the censers of these men who have sinned at the cost of their lives; so let them be made into hammered plates as a covering for the altar, for they offered them before the LORD; therefore they are holy. Thus they shall be a sign to the people of Israel."
    39: So Elea'zar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burned had offered; and they were hammered out as a covering for the altar,
    40: to be a reminder to the people of Israel, so that no one who is not a priest, who is not of the descendants of Aaron, should draw near to burn incense before the LORD, lest he become as Korah and as his company -- as the LORD said to Elea'zar through Moses.
    41: But on the morrow all the congregation of the people of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, "You have killed the people of the LORD."
    42: And when the congregation had assembled against Moses and against Aaron, they turned toward the tent of meeting; and behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the LORD appeared.
    43: And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting,
    44: and the LORD said to Moses,
    45: "Get away from the midst of this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment." And they fell on their faces.
    46: And Moses said to Aaron, "Take your censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and lay incense on it, and carry it quickly to the congregation, and make atonement for them; for wrath has gone forth from the LORD, the plague has begun."
    47: So Aaron took it as Moses said, and ran into the midst of the assembly; and behold, the plague had already begun among the people; and he put on the incense, and made atonement for the people.
    48: And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stopped.
    49: Now those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand seven hundred, besides those who died in the affair of Korah.
    50: And Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance of the tent of meeting, when the plague was stopped.

End of day 34.