Day 137:

Reading Job, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: My spirit is broken, my days are extinct, the grave is ready for me.
    2: Surely there are mockers about me, and my eye dwells on their provocation.
    3: "Lay down a pledge for me with thyself; who is there that will give surety for me?
    4: Since thou hast closed their minds to understanding, therefore thou wilt not let them triumph.
    5: He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property, the eyes of his children will fail.
    6: "He has made me a byword of the peoples, and I am one before whom men spit.
    7: My eye has grown dim from grief, and all my members are like a shadow.
    8: Upright men are appalled at this, and the innocent stirs himself up against the godless.
    9: Yet the righteous holds to his way, and he that has clean hands grows stronger and stronger.
    10: But you, come on again, all of you, and I shall not find a wise man among you.
    11: My days are past, my plans are broken off, the desires of my heart.
    12: They make night into day; `The light,' they say, `is near to the darkness.'
    13: If I look for Sheol as my house, if I spread my couch in darkness,
    14: if I say to the pit, `You are my father,' and to the worm, `My mother,' or `My sister,'
    15: where then is my hope? Who will see my hope?
    16: Will it go down to the bars of Sheol? Shall we descend together into the dust?"

  Chapter 18.

    1: Then Bildad the Shuhite answered:
    2: "How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and then we will speak.
    3: Why are we counted as cattle? Why are we stupid in your sight?
    4: You who tear yourself in your anger, shall the earth be forsaken for you, or the rock be removed out of its place?
    5: "Yea, the light of the wicked is put out, and the flame of his fire does not shine.
    6: The light is dark in his tent, and his lamp above him is put out.
    7: His strong steps are shortened and his own schemes throw him down.
    8: For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walks on a pitfall.
    9: A trap seizes him by the heel, a snare lays hold of him.
    10: A rope is hid for him in the ground, a trap for him in the path.
    11: Terrors frighten him on every side, and chase him at his heels.
    12: His strength is hunger-bitten, and calamity is ready for his stumbling.
    13: By disease his skin is consumed, the first-born of death consumes his limbs.
    14: He is torn from the tent in which he trusted, and is brought to the king of terrors.
    15: In his tent dwells that which is none of his; brimstone is scattered upon his habitation.
    16: His roots dry up beneath, and his branches wither above.
    17: His memory perishes from the earth, and he has no name in the street.
    18: He is thrust from light into darkness, and driven out of the world.
    19: He has no offspring or descendant among his people, and no survivor where he used to live.
    20: They of the west are appalled at his day, and horror seizes them of the east.
    21: Surely such are the dwellings of the ungodly, such is the place of him who knows not God."

  Chapter 19.

    1: Then Job answered:
    2: "How long will you torment me, and break me in pieces with words?
    3: These ten times you have cast reproach upon me; are you not ashamed to wrong me?
    4: And even if it be true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
    5: If indeed you magnify yourselves against me, and make my humiliation an argument against me,
    6: know then that God has put me in the wrong, and closed his net about me.
    7: Behold, I cry out, `Violence!' but I am not answered; I call aloud, but there is no justice.
    8: He has walled up my way, so that I cannot pass, and he has set darkness upon my paths.
    9: He has stripped from me my glory, and taken the crown from my head.
    10: He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone, and my hope has he pulled up like a tree.
    11: He has kindled his wrath against me, and counts me as his adversary.
    12: His troops come on together; they have cast up siegeworks against me, and encamp round about my tent.
    13: "He has put my brethren far from me, and my acquaintances are wholly estranged from me.
    14: My kinsfolk and my close friends have failed me;
    15: the guests in my house have forgotten me; my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become an alien in their eyes.
    16: I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must beseech him with my mouth.
    17: I am repulsive to my wife, loathsome to the sons of my own mother.
    18: Even young children despise me; when I rise they talk against me.
    19: All my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I loved have turned against me.
    20: My bones cleave to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
    21: Have pity on me, have pity on me, O you my friends, for the hand of God has touched me!
    22: Why do you, like God, pursue me? Why are you not satisfied with my flesh?
    23: "Oh that my words were written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
    24: Oh that with an iron pen and lead they were graven in the rock for ever!
    25: For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at last he will stand upon the earth;
    26: and after my skin has been thus destroyed, then from my flesh I shall see God,
    27: whom I shall see on my side, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. My heart faints within me!
    28: If you say, `How we will pursue him!' and, `The root of the matter is found in him';
    29: be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishment of the sword, that you may know there is a judgment."

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then Zophar the Na'amathite answered:
    2: "Therefore my thoughts answer me, because of my haste within me.
    3: I hear censure which insults me, and out of my understanding a spirit answers me.
    4: Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed upon earth,
    5: that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment?
    6: Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds,
    7: he will perish for ever like his own dung; those who have seen him will say, `Where is he?'
    8: He will fly away like a dream, and not be found; he will be chased away like a vision of the night.
    9: The eye which saw him will see him no more, nor will his place any more behold him.
    10: His children will seek the favor of the poor, and his hands will give back his wealth.
    11: His bones are full of youthful vigor, but it will lie down with him in the dust.
    12: "Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue,
    13: though he is loath to let it go, and holds it in his mouth,
    14: yet his food is turned in his stomach; it is the gall of asps within him.
    15: He swallows down riches and vomits them up again; God casts them out of his belly.
    16: He will suck the poison of asps; the tongue of a viper will kill him.
    17: He will not look upon the rivers, the streams flowing with honey and curds.
    18: He will give back the fruit of his toil, and will not swallow it down; from the profit of his trading he will get no enjoyment.
    19: For he has crushed and abandoned the poor, he has seized a house which he did not build.
    20: "Because his greed knew no rest, he will not save anything in which he delights.
    21: There was nothing left after he had eaten; therefore his prosperity will not endure.
    22: In the fulness of his sufficiency he will be in straits; all the force of misery will come upon him.
    23: To fill his belly to the full God will send his fierce anger into him, and rain it upon him as his food.
    24: He will flee from an iron weapon; a bronze arrow will strike him through.
    25: It is drawn forth and comes out of his body, the glittering point comes out of his gall; terrors come upon him.
    26: Utter darkness is laid up for his treasures; a fire not blown upon will devour him; what is left in his tent will be consumed.
    27: The heavens will reveal his iniquity, and the earth will rise up against him.
    28: The possessions of his house will be carried away, dragged off in the day of God's wrath.
    29: This is the wicked man's portion from God, the heritage decreed for him by God."

End of day 137.