Day 126:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: When the Gentiles round about heard that the altar had been built and the sanctuary dedicated as it was before, they became very angry,
    2: and they determined to destroy the descendants of Jacob who lived among them. So they began to kill and destroy among the people.
    3: But Judas made war on the sons of Esau in Idumea, at Akrabattene, because they kept lying in wait for Israel. He dealt them a heavy blow and humbled them and despoiled them.
    4: He also remembered the wickedness of the sons of Baean, who were a trap and a snare to the people and ambushed them on the highways.
    5: They were shut up by him in their towers; and he encamped against them, vowed their complete destruction, and burned with fire their towers and all who were in them.
    6: Then he crossed over to attack the Ammonites, where he found a strong band and many people with Timothy as their leader.
    7: He engaged in many battles with them and they were crushed before him; he struck them down.
    8: He also took Jazer and its villages; then he returned to Judea.
    9: Now the Gentiles in Gilead gathered together against the Israelites who lived in their territory, and planned to destroy them. But they fled to the stronghold of Dathema,
    10: and sent to Judas and his brothers a letter which said, "The Gentiles around us have gathered together against us to destroy us.
    11: They are preparing to come and capture the stronghold to which we have fled, and Timothy is leading their forces.
    12: Now then come and rescue us from their hands, for many of us have fallen,
    13: and all our brethren who were in the land of Tob have been killed; the enemy have captured their wives and children and goods, and have destroyed about a thousand men there."
    14: While the letter was still being read, behold, other messengers, with their garments rent, came from Galilee and made a similar report;
    15: they said that against them had gathered together men of Ptolemais and Tyre and Sidon, and all Galilee of the Gentiles, "to annihilate us."
    16: When Judas and the people heard these messages, a great assembly was called to determine what they should do for their brethren who were in distress and were being attacked by enemies.
    17: Then Judas said to Simon his brother, "Choose your men and go and rescue your brethren in Galilee; I and Jonathan my brother will go to Gilead."
    18: But he left Joseph, the son of Zechariah, and Azariah, a leader of the people, with the rest of the forces, in Judea to guard it;
    19: and he gave them this command, "Take charge of this people, but do not engage in battle with the Gentiles until we return."
    20: Then three thousand men were assigned to Simon to go to Galilee, and eight thousand to Judas for Gilead.
    21: so Simon went to Galilee and fought many battles against the Gentiles, and the Gentiles were crushed before him.
    22: He pursued them to the gate of Ptolemais, and as many as three thousand of the Gentiles fell, and he despoiled them.
    23: Then he took the Jews of Galilee and Arbatta, with their wives and children, and all they possessed, and led them to Judea with great rejoicing.
    24: Judas Maccabeus and Jonathan his brother crossed the Jordan and went three days' journey into the wilderness.
    25: They encountered the Nabateans, who met them peaceably and told them all that had happened to their brethren in Gilead:
    26: "Many of them have been shut up in Bozrah and Bosor, in Alema and Chaspho, Maked and Carnaim" -- all these cities were strong and large--
    27: "and some have been shut up in the other cities of Gilead; the enemy are getting ready to attack the strongholds tomorrow and take and destroy all these men in one day."
    28: Then Judas and his army quickly turned back by the wilderness road to Bozrah; and he took the city, and killed every male by the edge of the sword; then he seized all its spoils and burned it with fire.
    29: He departed from there at night, and they went all the way to the stronghold of Dathema.
    30: At dawn they looked up, and behold, a large company, that could not be counted, carrying ladders and engines of war to capture the stronghold, and attacking the Jews within.
    31: So Judas saw that the battle had begun and that the cry of the city went up to Heaven with trumpets and loud shouts,
    32: and he said to the men of his forces, "Fight today for your brethren!"
    33: Then he came up behind them in three companies, who sounded their trumpets and cried aloud in prayer.
    34: And when the army of Timothy realized that it was Maccabeus, they fled before him, and he dealt them a heavy blow. As many as eight thousand of them fell that day.
    35: Next he turned aside to Alema, and fought against it and took it; and he killed every male in it, plundered it, and burned it with fire.
    36: From there he marched on and took Chaspho, Maked, and Bosor, and the other cities of Gilead.
    37: After these things Timothy gathered another army and encamped opposite Raphon, on the other side of the stream.
    38: Judas sent men to spy out the camp, and they reported to him, "All the Gentiles around us have gathered to him; it is a very large force.
    39: They also have hired Arabs to help them, and they are encamped across the stream, ready to come and fight against you." And Judas went to meet them.
    40: Now as Judas and his army drew near to the stream of water, Timothy said to the officers of his forces, "If he crosses over to us first, we will not be able to resist him, for he will surely defeat us.
    41: But if he shows fear and camps on the other side of the river, we will cross over to him and defeat him."
    42: When Judas approached the stream of water, he stationed the scribes of the people at the stream and gave them this command, "Permit no man to encamp, but make them all enter the battle."
    43: Then he crossed over against them first, and the whole army followed him. All the Gentiles were defeated before him, and they threw away their arms and fled into the sacred precincts at Carnaim.
    44: But he took the city and burned the sacred precincts with fire, together with all who were in them. Thus Carnaim was conquered; they could stand before Judas no longer.
    45: Then Judas gathered together all the Israelites in Gilead, the small and the great, with their wives and children and goods, a very large company, to go to the land of Judah.
    46: So they came to Ephron. This was a large and very strong city on the road, and they could not go round it to the right or to the left; they had to go through it.
    47: But the men of the city shut them out and blocked up the gates with stones.
    48: And Judas sent them this friendly message, "Let us pass through your land to get to our land. No one will do you harm; we will simply pass by on foot." But they refused to open to him.
    49: Then Judas ordered proclamation to be made to the army that each should encamp where he was.
    50: So the men of the forces encamped, and he fought against the city all that day and all the night, and the city was delivered into his hands.
    51: He destroyed every male by the edge of the sword, and razed and plundered the city. Then he passed through the city over the slain.
    52: And they crossed the Jordan into the large plain before Beth-shan.
    53: And Judas kept rallying the laggards and encouraging the people all the way till he came to the land of Judah.
    54: So they went up to Mount Zion with gladness and joy, and offered burnt offerings, because not one of them had fallen before they returned in safety.
    55: Now while Judas and Jonathan were in Gilead and Simon his brother was in Galilee before Ptolemais,
    56: Joseph, the son of Zechariah, and Azariah, the commanders of the forces, heard of their brave deeds and of the heroic war they had fought.
    57: So they said, "Let us also make a name for ourselves; let us go and make war on the Gentiles around us."
    58: And they issued orders to the men of the forces that were with them, and they marched against Jamnia.
    59: And Gorgias and his men came out of the city to meet them in battle.
    60: Then Joseph and Azariah were routed, and were pursued to the borders of Judea; as many as two thousand of the people of Israel fell that day.
    61: Thus the people suffered a great rout because, thinking to do a brave deed, they did not listen to Judas and his brothers.
    62: But they did not belong to the family of those men through whom deliverance was given to Israel.
    63: The man Judas and his brothers were greatly honored in all Israel and among all the Gentiles, wherever their name was heard.
    64: Men gathered to them and praised them.
    65: Then Judas and his brothers went forth and fought the sons of Esau in the land to the south. He struck Hebron and its villages and tore down its strongholds and burned its towers round about.
    66: Then he marched off to go into the land of the Philistines, and passed through Marisa.
    67: On that day some priests, who wished to do a brave deed, fell in battle, for they went out to battle unwisely.
    68: But Judas turned aside to Azotus in the land of the Philistines; he tore down their altars, and the graven images of their gods he burned with fire; he plundered the cities and returned to the land of Judah.

  Chapter 6.

    1: King Antiochus was going through the upper provinces when he heard that Elymais in Persia was a city famed for its wealth in silver and gold.
    2: Its temple was very rich, containing golden shields, breastplates, and weapons left there by Alexander, the son of Philip, the Macedonian king who first reigned over the Greeks.
    3: So he came and tried to take the city and plunder it, but he could not, because his plan became known to the men of the city
    4: and they withstood him in battle. So he fled and in great grief departed from there to return to Babylon.
    5: Then some one came to him in Persia and reported that the armies which had gone into the land of Judah had been routed;
    6: that Lysias had gone first with a strong force, but had turned and fled before the Jews; that the Jews had grown strong from the arms, supplies, and abundant spoils which they had taken from the armies they had cut down;
    7: that they had torn down the abomination which he had erected upon the altar in Jerusalem; and that they had surrounded the sanctuary with high walls as before, and also Beth-zur, his city.
    8: When the king heard this news, he was astounded and badly shaken. He took to his bed and became sick from grief, because things had not turned out for him as he had planned.
    9: He lay there for many days, because deep grief continually gripped him, and he concluded that he was dying.
    10: So he called all his friends and said to them, "Sleep departs from my eyes and I am downhearted with worry.
    11: I said to myself, `To what distress I have come! And into what a great flood I now am plunged! For I was kind and beloved in my power.'
    12: But now I remember the evils I did in Jerusalem. I seized all her vessels of silver and gold; and I sent to destroy the inhabitants of Judah without good reason.
    13: I know that it is because of this that these evils have come upon me; and behold, I am perishing of deep grief in a strange land."
    14: Then he called for Philip, one of his friends, and made him ruler over all his kingdom.
    15: He gave him the crown and his robe and the signet, that he might guide Antiochus his son and bring him up to be king.
    16: Thus Antiochus the king died there in the one hundred and forty-ninth year.
    17: And when Lysias learned that the king was dead, he set up Antiochus the king's son to reign. Lysias had brought him up as a boy, and he named him Eupator.
    18: Now the men in the citadel kept hemming Israel in around the sanctuary. They were trying in every way to harm them and strengthen the Gentiles.
    19: So Judas decided to destroy them, and assembled all the people to besiege them.
    20: They gathered together and besieged the citadel in the one hundred and fiftieth year; and he built siege towers and other engines of war.
    21: But some of the garrison escaped from the siege and some of the ungodly Israelites joined them.
    22: They went to the king and said, "How long will you fail to do justice and to avenge our brethren?
    23: We were happy to serve your father, to live by what he said and to follow his commands.
    24: For this reason the sons of our people besieged the citadel and became hostile to us; moreover, they have put to death as many of us as they have caught, and they have seized our inheritances.
    25: And not against us alone have they stretched out their hands, but also against all the lands on their borders.
    26: And behold, today they have encamped against the citadel in Jerusalem to take it; they have fortified both the sanctuary and Beth-zur;
    27: and unless you quickly prevent them, they will do still greater things, and you will not be able to stop them."
    28: The king was enraged when he heard this. He assembled all his friends, the commanders of his forces and those in authority.
    29: And mercenary forces came to him from other kingdoms and from islands of the seas.
    30: The number of his forces was a hundred thousand foot soldiers, twenty thousand horsemen, and thirty-two elephants accustomed to war.
    31: They came through Idumea and encamped against Beth-zur, and for many days they fought and built engines of war; but the Jews sallied out and burned these with fire, and fought manfully.
    32: Then Judas marched away from the citadel and encamped at Beth-zechariah, opposite the camp of the king.
    33: Early in the morning the king rose and took his army by a forced march along the road to Beth-zechariah, and his troops made ready for battle and sounded their trumpets.
    34: They showed the elephants the juice of grapes and mulberries, to arouse them for battle.
    35: And they distributed the beasts among the phalanxes; with each elephant they stationed a thousand men armed with coats of mail, and with brass helmets on their heads; and five hundred picked horsemen were assigned to each beast.
    36: These took their position beforehand wherever the beast was; wherever it went they went with it, and they never left it.
    37: And upon the elephants were wooden towers, strong and covered; they were fastened upon each beast by special harness, and upon each were four armed men who fought from there, and also its Indian driver.
    38: The rest of the horsemen were stationed on either side, on the two flanks of the army, to harass the enemy while being themselves protected by the phalanxes.
    39: When the sun shone upon the shields of gold and brass, the hills were ablaze with them and gleamed like flaming torches.
    40: Now a part of the king's army was spread out on the high hills, and some troops were on the plain, and they advanced steadily and in good order.
    41: All who heard the noise made by their multitude, by the marching of the multitude and the clanking of their arms, trembled, for the army was very large and strong.
    42: But Judas and his army advanced to the battle, and six hundred men of the king's army fell.
    43: And Eleazar, called Avaran, saw that one of the beasts was equipped with royal armor. It was taller than all the others, and he supposed that the king was upon it.
    44: So he gave his life to save his people and to win for himself an everlasting name.
    45: He courageously ran into the midst of the phalanx to reach it; he killed men right and left, and they parted before him on both sides.
    46: He got under the elephant, stabbed it from beneath, and killed it; but it fell to the ground upon him and he died.
    47: And when the Jews saw the royal might and the fierce attack of the forces, they turned away in flight.
    48: The soldiers of the king's army went up to Jerusalem against them, and the king encamped in Judea and at Mount Zion.
    49: He made peace with the men of Beth-zur, and they evacuated the city, because they had no provisions there to withstand a siege, since it was a sabbatical year for the land.
    50: So the king took Beth-zur and stationed a guard there to hold it.
    51: Then he encamped before the sanctuary for many days. He set up siege towers, engines of war to throw fire and stones, machines to shoot arrows, and catapults.
    52: The Jews also made engines of war to match theirs, and fought for many days.
    53: But they had no food in storage, because it was the seventh year; those who found safety in Judea from the Gentiles had consumed the last of the stores.
    54: Few men were left in the sanctuary, because famine had prevailed over the rest and they had been scattered, each to his own place.
    55: Then Lysias heard that Philip, whom King Antiochus while still living had appointed to bring up Antiochus his son to be king,
    56: had returned from Persia and Media with the forces that had gone with the king, and that he was trying to seize control of the government.
    57: So he quickly gave orders to depart, and said to the king, to the commanders of the forces, and to the men, "We daily grow weaker, our food supply is scant, the place against which we are fighting is strong, and the affairs of the kingdom press urgently upon us.
    58: Now then let us come to terms with these men, and make peace with them and with all their nation,
    59: and agree to let them live by their laws as they did before; for it was on account of their laws which we abolished that they became angry and did all these things."
    60: The speech pleased the king and the commanders, and he sent to the Jews an offer of peace, and they accepted it.
    61: So the king and the commanders gave them their oath. On these conditions the Jews evacuated the stronghold.
    62: But when the king entered Mount Zion and saw what a strong fortress the place was, he broke the oath he had sworn and gave orders to tear down the wall all around.
    63: Then he departed with haste and returned to Antioch. He found Philip in control of the city, but he fought against him, and took the city by force.

  Chapter 7.

    1: In the one hundred and fifty-first year Demetrius the son of Seleucus set forth from Rome, sailed with a few men to a city by the sea, and there began to reign.
    2: As he was entering the royal palace of his fathers, the army seized Antiochus and Lysias to bring them to him.
    3: But when this act became known to him, he said, "Do not let me see their faces!"
    4: So the army killed them, and Demetrius took his seat upon the throne of his kingdom.
    5: Then there came to him all the lawless and ungodly men of Israel; they were led by Alcimus, who wanted to be high priest.
    6: And they brought to the king this accusation against the people: "Judas and his brothers have destroyed all your friends, and have driven us out of our land.
    7: Now then send a man whom you trust; let him go and see all the ruin which Judas has brought upon us and upon the land of the king, and let him punish them and all who help them."
    8: So the king chose Bacchides, one of the king's friends, governor of the province Beyond the River; he was a great man in the kingdom and was faithful to the king.
    9: And he sent him, and with him the ungodly Alcimus, whom he made high priest; and he commanded him to take vengeance on the sons of Israel.
    10: So they marched away and came with a large force into the land of Judah; and he sent messengers to Judas and his brothers with peaceable but treacherous words.
    11: But they paid no attention to their words, for they saw that they had come with a large force.
    12: Then a group of scribes appeared in a body before Alcimus and Bacchides to ask for just terms.
    13: The Hasideans were first among the sons of Israel to seek peace from them,
    14: for they said, "A priest of the line of Aaron has come with the army, and he will not harm us."
    15: And he spoke peaceable words to them and swore this oath to them, "We will not seek to injure you or your friends."
    16: So they trusted him; but he seized sixty of them and killed them in one day, in accordance with the word which was written,
    17: "The flesh of thy saints and their blood they poured out round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them."
    18: Then the fear and dread of them fell upon all the people, for they said, "There is no truth or justice in them, for they have violated the agreement and the oath which they swore."
    19: Then Bacchides departed from Jerusalem and encamped in Beth-zaith. And he sent and seized many of the men who had deserted to him, and some of the people, and killed them and threw them into a great pit.
    20: He placed Alcimus in charge of the country and left with him a force to help him; then Bacchides went back to the king.
    21: Alcimus strove for the high priesthood,
    22: and all who were troubling their people joined him. They gained control of the land of Judah and did great damage in Israel.
    23: And Judas saw all the evil that Alcimus and those with him had done among the sons of Israel; it was more than the Gentiles had done.
    24: So Judas went out into all the surrounding parts of Judea, and took vengeance on the men who had deserted, and he prevented those in the city from going out into the country.
    25: When Alcimus saw that Judas and those with him had grown strong, and realized that he could not withstand them, he returned to the king and brought wicked charges against them.
    26: Then the king sent Nicanor, one of his honored princes, who hated and detested Israel, and he commanded him to destroy the people.
    27: So Nicanor came to Jerusalem with a large force, and treacherously sent to Judas and his brothers this peaceable message,
    28: "Let there be no fighting between me and you; I shall come with a few men to see you face to face in peace."
    29: So he came to Judas, and they greeted one another peaceably. But the enemy were ready to seize Judas.
    30: It became known to Judas that Nicanor had come to him with treacherous intent, and he was afraid of him and would not meet him again.
    31: When Nicanor learned that his plan had been disclosed, he went out to meet Judas in battle near Caphar-salama.
    32: About five hundred men of the army of Nicanor fell, and the rest fled into the city of David.
    33: After these events Nicanor went up to Mount Zion. Some of the priests came out of the sanctuary, and some of the elders of the people, to greet him peaceably and to show him the burnt offering that was being offered for the king.
    34: But he mocked them and derided them and defiled them and spoke arrogantly,
    35: and in anger he swore this oath, "Unless Judas and his army are delivered into my hands this time, then if I return safely I will burn up this house." And he went out in great anger.
    36: Then the priests went in and stood before the altar and the temple, and they wept and said,
    37: "Thou didst choose this house to be called by thy name, and to be for thy people a house of prayer and supplication.
    38: Take vengeance on this man and on his army, and let them fall by the sword; remember their blasphemies, and let them live no longer."
    39: Now Nicanor went out from Jerusalem and encamped in Beth-horon, and the Syrian army joined him.
    40: And Judas encamped in Adasa with three thousand men. Then Judas prayed and said,
    41: "When the messengers from the king spoke blasphemy, thy angel went forth and struck down one hundred and eighty-five thousand of the Assyrians.
    42: So also crush this army before us today; let the rest learn that Nicanor has spoken wickedly against the sanctuary, and judge him according to this wickedness."
    43: So the armies met in battle on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar. The army of Nicanor was crushed, and he himself was the first to fall in the battle.
    44: When his army saw that Nicanor had fallen, they threw down their arms and fled.
    45: The Jews pursued them a day's journey, from Adasa as far as Gazara, and as they followed kept sounding the battle call on the trumpets.
    46: And men came out of all the villages of Judea round about, and they out-flanked the enemy and drove them back to their pursuers, so that they all fell by the sword; not even one of them was left.
    47: Then the Jews seized the spoils and the plunder, and they cut off Nicanor's head and the right hand which he so arrogantly stretched out, and brought them and displayed them just outside Jerusalem.
    48: The people rejoiced greatly and celebrated that day as a day of great gladness.
    49: And they decreed that this day should be celebrated each year on the thirteenth day of Adar.
    50: So the land of Judah had rest for a few days.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now Judas heard of the fame of the Romans, that they were very strong and were well-disposed toward all who made an alliance with them, that they pledged friendship to those who came to them,
    2: and that they were very strong. Men told him of their wars and of the brave deeds which they were doing among the Gauls, how they had defeated them and forced them to pay tribute,
    3: and what they had done in the land of Spain to get control of the silver and gold mines there,
    4: and how they had gained control of the whole region by their planning and patience, even though the place was far distant from them. They also subdued the kings who came against them from the ends of the earth, until they crushed them and inflicted great disaster upon them; the rest paid them tribute every year.
    5: Philip, and Perseus king of the Macedonians, and the others who rose up against them, they crushed in battle and conquered.
    6: They also defeated Antiochus the Great, king of Asia, who went to fight against them with a hundred and twenty elephants and with cavalry and chariots and a very large army. He was crushed by them;
    7: they took him alive and decreed that he and those who should reign after him should pay a heavy tribute and give hostages and surrender some of their best provinces,
    8: the country of India and Media and Lydia. These they took from him and gave to Eumenes the king.
    9: The Greeks planned to come and destroy them,
    10: but this became known to them, and they sent a general against the Greeks and attacked them. Many of them were wounded and fell, and the Romans took captive their wives and children; they plundered them, conquered the land, tore down their strongholds, and enslaved them to this day.
    11: The remaining kingdoms and islands, as many as ever opposed them, they destroyed and enslaved;
    12: but with their friends and those who rely on them they have kept friendship. They have subdued kings far and near, and as many as have heard of their fame have feared them.
    13: Those whom they wish to help and to make kings, they make kings, and those whom they wish they depose; and they have been greatly exalted.
    14: Yet for all this not one of them has put on a crown or worn purple as a mark of pride,
    15: but they have built for themselves a senate chamber, and every day three hundred and twenty senators constantly deliberate concerning the people, to govern them well.
    16: They trust one man each year to rule over them and to control all their land; they all heed the one man, and there is no envy or jealousy among them.
    17: So Judas chose Eupolemus the son of John, son of Accos, and Jason the son of Eleazar, and sent them to Rome to establish friendship and alliance,
    18: and to free themselves from the yoke; for they saw that the kingdom of the Greeks was completely enslaving Israel.
    19: They went to Rome, a very long journey; and they entered the senate chamber and spoke as follows:
    20: "Judas, who is also called Maccabeus, and his brothers and the people of the Jews have sent us to you to establish alliance and peace with you, that we may be enrolled as your allies and friends."
    21: The proposal pleased them,
    22: and this is a copy of the letter which they wrote in reply, on bronze tablets, and sent to Jerusalem to remain with them there as a memorial of peace and alliance:
    23: "May all go well with the Romans and with the nation of the Jews at sea and on land for ever, and may sword and enemy be far from them.
    24: If war comes first to Rome or to any of their allies in all their dominion,
    25: the nation of the Jews shall act as their allies wholeheartedly, as the occasion may indicate to them.
    26: And to the enemy who makes war they shall not give or supply grain, arms, money, or ships, as Rome has decided; and they shall keep their obligations without receiving any return.
    27: In the same way, if war comes first to the nation of the Jews, the Romans shall willingly act as their allies, as the occasion may indicate to them.
    28: And to the enemy allies shall be given no grain, arms, money, or ships, as Rome has decided; and they shall keep these obligations and do so without deceit.
    29: Thus on these terms the Romans make a treaty with the Jewish people.
    30: If after these terms are in effect both parties shall determine to add or delete anything, they shall do so at their discretion, and any addition or deletion that they may make shall be valid.
    31: "And concerning the wrongs which King Demetrius is doing to them we have written to him as follows, `Why have you made your yoke heavy upon our friends and allies the Jews?
    32: If now they appeal again for help against you, we will defend their rights and fight you on sea and on land.'"

End of day 126.