Day 221:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: Woe to you, destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed; you treacherous one, with whom none has dealt treacherously! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have made an end of dealing treacherously, you will be dealt with treacherously.
    2: O LORD, be gracious to us; we wait for thee. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble.
    3: At the thunderous noise peoples flee, at the lifting up of thyself nations are scattered;
    4: and spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, men leap upon it.
    5: The LORD is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness;
    6: and he will be the stability of your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the fear of the LORD is his treasure.
    7: Behold, the valiant ones cry without; the envoys of peace weep bitterly.
    8: The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceases. Covenants are broken, witnesses are despised, there is no regard for man.
    9: The land mourns and languishes; Lebanon is confounded and withers away; Sharon is like a desert; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
    10: "Now I will arise," says the LORD, "now I will lift myself up; now I will be exalted.
    11: You conceive chaff, you bring forth stubble; your breath is a fire that will consume you.
    12: And the peoples will be as if burned to lime, like thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire."
    13: Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge my might.
    14: The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling has seized the godless: "Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?"
    15: He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes from looking upon evil,
    16: he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him, his water will be sure.
    17: Your eyes will see the king in his beauty; they will behold a land that stretches afar.
    18: Your mind will muse on the terror: "Where is he who counted, where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers?"
    19: You will see no more the insolent people, the people of an obscure speech which you cannot comprehend, stammering in a tongue which you cannot understand.
    20: Look upon Zion, the city of our appointed feasts! Your eyes will see Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, an immovable tent, whose stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
    21: But there the LORD in majesty will be for us a place of broad rivers and streams, where no galley with oars can go, nor stately ship can pass.
    22: For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our ruler, the LORD is our king; he will save us.
    23: Your tackle hangs loose; it cannot hold the mast firm in its place, or keep the sail spread out. Then prey and spoil in abundance will be divided; even the lame will take the prey.
    24: And no inhabitant will say, "I am sick"; the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.

  Chapter 34.

    1: Draw near, O nations, to hear, and hearken, O peoples! Let the earth listen, and all that fills it; the world, and all that comes from it.
    2: For the LORD is enraged against all the nations, and furious against all their host, he has doomed them, has given them over for slaughter.
    3: Their slain shall be cast out, and the stench of their corpses shall rise; the mountains shall flow with their blood.
    4: All the host of heaven shall rot away, and the skies roll up like a scroll. All their host shall fall, as leaves fall from the vine, like leaves falling from the fig tree.
    5: For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens; behold, it descends for judgment upon Edom, upon the people I have doomed.
    6: The LORD has a sword; it is sated with blood, it is gorged with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah, a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
    7: Wild oxen shall fall with them, and young steers with the mighty bulls. Their land shall be soaked with blood, and their soil made rich with fat.
    8: For the LORD has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
    9: And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch, and her soil into brimstone; her land shall become burning pitch.
    10: Night and day it shall not be quenched; its smoke shall go up for ever. From generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever.
    11: But the hawk and the porcupine shall possess it, the owl and the raven shall dwell in it. He shall stretch the line of confusion over it, and the plummet of chaos over its nobles.
    12: They shall name it No Kingdom There, and all its princes shall be nothing.
    13: Thorns shall grow over its strongholds, nettles and thistles in its fortresses. It shall be the haunt of jackals, an abode for ostriches.
    14: And wild beasts shall meet with hyenas, the satyr shall cry to his fellow; yea, there shall the night hag alight, and find for herself a resting place.
    15: There shall the owl nest and lay and hatch and gather her young in her shadow; yea, there shall the kites be gathered, each one with her mate.
    16: Seek and read from the book of the LORD: Not one of these shall be missing; none shall be without her mate. For the mouth of the LORD has commanded, and his Spirit has gathered them.
    17: He has cast the lot for them, his hand has portioned it out to them with the line; they shall possess it for ever, from generation to generation they shall dwell in it.

  Chapter 35.

    1: The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad, the desert shall rejoice and blossom; like the crocus
    2: it shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the LORD, the majesty of our God.
    3: Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees.
    4: Say to those who are of a fearful heart, "Be strong, fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you."
    5: Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped;
    6: then shall the lame man leap like a hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing for joy. For waters shall break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;
    7: the burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water; the haunt of jackals shall become a swamp, the grass shall become reeds and rushes.
    8: And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the Holy Way; the unclean shall not pass over it, and fools shall not err therein.
    9: No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come up on it; they shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there.
    10: And the ransomed of the LORD shall return, and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.

  Chapter 36.

    1: In the fourteenth year of King Hezeki'ah, Sennach'erib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
    2: And the king of Assyria sent the Rab'shakeh from Lachish to King Hezeki'ah at Jerusalem, with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Fuller's Field.
    3: And there came out to him Eli'akim the son of Hilki'ah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Jo'ah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
    4: And the Rab'shakeh said to them, "Say to Hezeki'ah, `Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On what do you rest this confidence of yours?
    5: Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? On whom do you now rely, that you have rebelled against me?
    6: Behold, you are relying on Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who rely on him.
    7: But if you say to me, "We rely on the LORD our God," is it not he whose high places and altars Hezeki'ah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, "You shall worship before this altar"?
    8: Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders upon them.
    9: How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants, when you rely on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
    10: Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The LORD said to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.'"
    11: Then Eli'akim, Shebna, and Jo'ah said to the Rab'shakeh, "Pray, speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall."
    12: But the Rab'shakeh said, "Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine?"
    13: Then the Rab'shakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: "Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!
    14: Thus says the king: `Do not let Hezeki'ah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you.
    15: Do not let Hezeki'ah make you rely on the LORD by saying, "The LORD will surely deliver us; this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria."
    16: Do not listen to Hezeki'ah; for thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out to me; then every one of you will eat of his own vine, and every one of his own fig tree, and every one of you will drink the water of his own cistern;
    17: until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
    18: Beware lest Hezeki'ah mislead you by saying, "The LORD will deliver us." Has any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
    19: Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharva'im? Have they delivered Sama'ria out of my hand?
    20: Who among all the gods of these countries have delivered their countries out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'"
    21: But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, "Do not answer him."
    22: Then Eli'akim the son of Hilki'ah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Jo'ah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezeki'ah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of the Rab'shakeh.

End of day 221.