Day 159:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['61', '62', '63', '64']:

  Chapter 61.

    1: Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer;
    2: from the end of the earth I call to thee, when my heart is faint. Lead thou me to the rock that is higher than I;
    3: for thou art my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy.
    4: Let me dwell in thy tent for ever! Oh to be safe under the shelter of thy wings! [Selah]
    5: For thou, O God, hast heard my vows, thou hast given me the heritage of those who fear thy name.
    6: Prolong the life of the king; may his years endure to all generations!
    7: May he be enthroned for ever before God; bid steadfast love and faithfulness watch over him!
    8: So will I ever sing praises to thy name, as I pay my vows day after day.

  Chapter 62.

    1: For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation.
    2: He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly moved.
    3: How long will you set upon a man to shatter him, all of you, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence?
    4: They only plan to thrust him down from his eminence. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. [Selah]
    5: For God alone my soul waits in silence, for my hope is from him.
    6: He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be shaken.
    7: On God rests my deliverance and my honor; my mighty rock, my refuge is God.
    8: Trust in him at all times, O people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us. [Selah]
    9: Men of low estate are but a breath, men of high estate are a delusion; in the balances they go up; they are together lighter than a breath.
    10: Put no confidence in extortion, set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.
    11: Once God has spoken; twice have I heard this: that power belongs to God;
    12: and that to thee, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For thou dost requite a man according to his work.

  Chapter 63.

    1: O God, thou art my God, I seek thee, my soul thirsts for thee; my flesh faints for thee, as in a dry and weary land where no water is.
    2: So I have looked upon thee in the sanctuary, beholding thy power and glory.
    3: Because thy steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise thee.
    4: So I will bless thee as long as I live; I will lift up my hands and call on thy name.
    5: My soul is feasted as with marrow and fat, and my mouth praises thee with joyful lips,
    6: when I think of thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the watches of the night;
    7: for thou hast been my help, and in the shadow of thy wings I sing for joy.
    8: My soul clings to thee; thy right hand upholds me.
    9: But those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the earth;
    10: they shall be given over to the power of the sword, they shall be prey for jackals.
    11: But the king shall rejoice in God; all who swear by him shall glory; for the mouths of liars will be stopped.

  Chapter 64.

    1: Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my life from dread of the enemy,
    2: hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the scheming of evildoers,
    3: who whet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows,
    4: shooting from ambush at the blameless, shooting at him suddenly and without fear.
    5: They hold fast to their evil purpose; they talk of laying snares secretly, thinking, "Who can see us?
    6: Who can search out our crimes? We have thought out a cunningly conceived plot." For the inward mind and heart of a man are deep!
    7: But God will shoot his arrow at them; they will be wounded suddenly.
    8: Because of their tongue he will bring them to ruin; all who see them will wag their heads.
    9: Then all men will fear; they will tell what God has wrought, and ponder what he has done.
    10: Let the righteous rejoice in the LORD, and take refuge in him! Let all the upright in heart glory!

End of day 159.