Day 131:

Reading 2-Maccabees, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: About that time, as it happened, Antiochus had retreated in disorder from the region of Persia.
    2: For he had entered the city called Persepolis, and attempted to rob the temples and control the city. Therefore the people rushed to the rescue with arms, and Antiochus and his men were defeated, with the result that Antiochus was put to flight by the inhabitants and beat a shameful retreat.
    3: While he was in Ecbatana, news came to him of what had happened to Nicanor and the forces of Timothy.
    4: Transported with rage, he conceived the idea of turning upon the Jews the injury done by those who had put him to flight; so he ordered his charioteer to drive without stopping until he completed the journey. But the judgment of heaven rode with him! For in his arrogance he said, "When I get there I will make Jerusalem a cemetery of Jews."
    5: But the all-seeing Lord, the God of Israel, struck him an incurable and unseen blow. As soon as he ceased speaking he was seized with a pain in his bowels for which there was no relief and with sharp internal tortures --
    6: and that very justly, for he had tortured the bowels of others with many and strange inflictions.
    7: Yet he did not in any way stop his insolence, but was even more filled with arrogance, breathing fire in his rage against the Jews, and giving orders to hasten the journey. And so it came about that he fell out of his chariot as it was rushing along, and the fall was so hard as to torture every limb of his body.
    8: Thus he who had just been thinking that he could command the waves of the sea, in his superhuman arrogance, and imagining that he could weigh the high mountains in a balance, was brought down to earth and carried in a litter, making the power of God manifest to all.
    9: And so the ungodly man's body swarmed with worms, and while he was still living in anguish and pain, his flesh rotted away, and because of his stench the whole army felt revulsion at his decay.
    10: Because of his intolerable stench no one was able to carry the man who a little while before had thought that he could touch the stars of heaven.
    11: Then it was that, broken in spirit, he began to lose much of his arrogance and to come to his senses under the scourge of God, for he was tortured with pain every moment.
    12: And when he could not endure his own stench, he uttered these words: "It is right to be subject to God, and no mortal should think that he is equal to God."
    13: Then the abominable fellow made a vow to the Lord, who would no longer have mercy on him, stating
    14: that the holy city, which he was hastening to level to the ground and to make a cemetery, he was now declaring to be free;
    15: and the Jews, whom he had not considered worth burying but had planned to throw out with their children to the beasts, for the birds to pick, he would make, all of them, equal to citizens of Athens;
    16: and the holy sanctuary, which he had formerly plundered, he would adorn with the finest offerings; and the holy vessels he would give back, all of them, many times over; and the expenses incurred for the sacrifices he would provide from his own revenues;
    17: and in addition to all this he also would become a Jew and would visit every inhabited place to proclaim the power of God.
    18: But when his sufferings did not in any way abate, for the judgment of God had justly come upon him, he gave up all hope for himself and wrote to the Jews the following letter, in the form of a supplication. This was its content:
    19: "To his worthy Jewish citizens, Antiochus their king and general sends hearty greetings and good wishes for their health and prosperity.
    20: If you and your children are well and your affairs are as you wish, I am glad. As my hope is in heaven,
    21: I remember with affection your esteem and good will. On my way back from the region of Persia I suffered an annoying illness, and I have deemed it necessary to take thought for the general security of all.
    22: I do not despair of my condition, for I have good hope of recovering from my illness,
    23: but I observed that my father, on the occasions when he made expeditions into the upper country, appointed his successor,
    24: so that, if anything unexpected happened or any unwelcome news came, the people throughout the realm would not be troubled, for they would know to whom the government was left.
    25: Moreover, I understand how the princes along the borders and the neighbors to my kingdom keep watching for opportunities and waiting to see what will happen. So I have appointed my son Antiochus to be king, whom I have often entrusted and commended to most of you when I hastened off to the upper provinces; and I have written to him what is written here.
    26: I therefore urge and beseech you to remember the public and private services rendered to you and to maintain your present good will, each of you, toward me and my son.
    27: For I am sure that he will follow my policy and will treat you with moderation and kindness."
    28: So the murderer and blasphemer, having endured the more intense suffering, such as he had inflicted on others, came to the end of his life by a most pitiable fate, among the mountains in a strange land.
    29: And Philip, one of his courtiers, took his body home; then, fearing the son of Antiochus, he betook himself to Ptolemy Philometor in Egypt.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now Maccabeus and his followers, the Lord leading them on, recovered the temple and the city;
    2: and they tore down the altars which had been built in the public square by the foreigners, and also destroyed the sacred precincts.
    3: They purified the sanctuary, and made another altar of sacrifice; then, striking fire out of flint, they offered sacrifices, after a lapse of two years, and they burned incense and lighted lamps and set out the bread of the Presence.
    4: And when they had done this, they fell prostrate and besought the Lord that they might never again fall into such misfortunes, but that, if they should ever sin, they might be disciplined by him with forbearance and not be handed over to blasphemous and barbarous nations.
    5: It happened that on the same day on which the sanctuary had been profaned by the foreigners, the purification of the sanctuary took place, that is, on the twenty-fifth day of the same month, which was Chislev.
    6: And they celebrated it for eight days with rejoicing, in the manner of the feast of booths, remembering how not long before, during the feast of booths, they had been wandering in the mountains and caves like wild animals.
    7: Therefore bearing ivy-wreathed wands and beautiful branches and also fronds of palm, they offered hymns of thanksgiving to him who had given success to the purifying of his own holy place.
    8: They decreed by public ordinance and vote that the whole nation of the Jews should observe these days every year.
    9: Such then was the end of Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes.
    10: Now we will tell what took place under Antiochus Eupator, who was the son of that ungodly man, and will give a brief summary of the principal calamities of the wars.
    11: This man, when he succeeded to the kingdom, appointed one Lysias to have charge of the government and to be chief governor of Coelesyria and Phoenicia.
    12: Ptolemy, who was called Macron, took the lead in showing justice to the Jews because of the wrong that had been done to them, and attempted to maintain peaceful relations with them.
    13: As a result he was accused before Eupator by the king's friends. He heard himself called a traitor at every turn, because he had abandoned Cyprus, which Philometor had entrusted to him, and had gone over to Antiochus Epiphanes. Unable to command the respect due his office, he took poison and ended his life.
    14: When Gorgias became governor of the region, he maintained a force of mercenaries, and at every turn kept on warring against the Jews.
    15: Besides this, the Idumeans, who had control of important strongholds, were harassing the Jews; they received those who were banished from Jerusalem, and endeavored to keep up the war.
    16: But Maccabeus and his men, after making solemn supplication and beseeching God to fight on their side, rushed to the strongholds of the Idumeans.
    17: Attacking them vigorously, they gained possession of the places, and beat off all who fought upon the wall, and slew those whom they encountered, killing no fewer than twenty thousand.
    18: When no less than nine thousand took refuge in two very strong towers well equipped to withstand a siege,
    19: Maccabeus left Simon and Joseph, and also Zacchaeus and his men, a force sufficient to besiege them; and he himself set off for places where he was more urgently needed.
    20: But the men with Simon, who were money-hungry, were bribed by some of those who were in the towers, and on receiving seventy thousand drachmas let some of them slip away.
    21: When word of what had happened came to Maccabeus, he gathered the leaders of the people, and accused these men of having sold their brethren for money by setting their enemies free to fight against them.
    22: Then he slew these men who had turned traitor, and immediately captured the two towers.
    23: Having success at arms in everything he undertook, he destroyed more than twenty thousand in the two strongholds.
    24: Now Timothy, who had been defeated by the Jews before, gathered a tremendous force of mercenaries and collected the cavalry from Asia in no small number. He came on, intending to take Judea by storm.
    25: As he drew near, Maccabeus and his men sprinkled dust upon their heads and girded their loins with sackcloth, in supplication to God.
    26: Falling upon the steps before the altar, they besought him to be gracious to them and to be an enemy to their enemies and an adversary to their adversaries, as the law declares.
    27: And rising from their prayer they took up their arms and advanced a considerable distance from the city; and when they came near to the enemy they halted.
    28: Just as dawn was breaking, the two armies joined battle, the one having as pledge of success and victory not only their valor but their reliance upon the Lord, while the other made rage their leader in the fight.
    29: When the battle became fierce, there appeared to the enemy from heaven five resplendent men on horses with golden bridles, and they were leading the Jews.
    30: Surrounding Maccabeus and protecting him with their own armor and weapons, they kept him from being wounded. And they showered arrows and thunderbolts upon the enemy, so that, confused and blinded, they were thrown into disorder and cut to pieces.
    31: Twenty thousand five hundred were slaughtered, besides six hundred horsemen.
    32: Timothy himself fled to a stronghold called Gazara, especially well garrisoned, where Chaereas was commander.
    33: Then Maccabeus and his men were glad, and they besieged the fort for four days.
    34: The men within, relying on the strength of the place, blasphemed terribly and hurled out wicked words.
    35: But at dawn of the fifth day, twenty young men in the army of Maccabeus, fired with anger because of the blasphemies, bravely stormed the wall and with savage fury cut down every one they met.
    36: Others who came up in the same way wheeled around against the defenders and set fire to the towers; they kindled fires and burned the blasphemers alive. Others broke open the gates and let in the rest of the force, and they occupied the city.
    37: They killed Timothy, who was hidden in a cistern, and his brother Chaereas, and Apollophanes.
    38: When they had accomplished these things, with hymns and thanksgivings they blessed the Lord who shows great kindness to Israel and gives them the victory.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Very soon after this, Lysias, the king's guardian and kinsman, who was in charge of the government, being vexed at what had happened,
    2: gathered about eighty thousand men and all his cavalry and came against the Jews. He intended to make the city a home for Greeks,
    3: and to levy tribute on the temple as he did on the sacred places of the other nations, and to put up the high priesthood for sale every year.
    4: He took no account whatever of the power of God, but was elated with his ten thousands of infantry, and his thousands of cavalry, and his eighty elephants.
    5: Invading Judea, he approached Beth-zur, which was a fortified place about five leagues from Jerusalem, and pressed it hard.
    6: When Maccabeus and his men got word that Lysias was besieging the strongholds, they and all the people, with lamentations and tears, besought the Lord to send a good angel to save Israel.
    7: Maccabeus himself was the first to take up arms, and he urged the others to risk their lives with him to aid their brethren. Then they eagerly rushed off together.
    8: And there, while they were still near Jerusalem, a horseman appeared at their head, clothed in white and brandishing weapons of gold.
    9: And they all together praised the merciful God, and were strengthened in heart, ready to assail not only men but the wildest beasts or walls of iron.
    10: They advanced in battle order, having their heavenly ally, for the Lord had mercy on them.
    11: They hurled themselves like lions against the enemy, and slew eleven thousand of them and sixteen hundred horsemen, and forced all the rest to flee.
    12: Most of them got away stripped and wounded, and Lysias himself escaped by disgraceful flight.
    13: And as he was not without intelligence, he pondered over the defeat which had befallen him, and realized that the Hebrews were invincible because the mighty God fought on their side. So he sent to them
    14: and persuaded them to settle everything on just terms, promising that he would persuade the king, constraining him to be their friend.
    15: Maccabeus, having regard for the common good, agreed to all that Lysias urged. For the king granted every request in behalf of the Jews which Maccabeus delivered to Lysias in writing.
    16: The letter written to the Jews by Lysias was to this effect: "Lysias to the people of the Jews, greeting.
    17: John and Absalom, who were sent by you, have delivered your signed communication and have asked about the matters indicated therein.
    18: I have informed the king of everything that needed to be brought before him, and he has agreed to what was possible.
    19: If you will maintain your good will toward the government, I will endeavor for the future to help promote your welfare.
    20: And concerning these matters and their details, I have ordered these men and my representatives to confer with you.
    21: Farewell. The one hundred and forty-eighth year, Dioscorinthius twenty-fourth."
    22: The king's letter ran thus: "King Antiochus to his brother Lysias, greeting.
    23: Now that our father has gone on to the gods, we desire that the subjects of the kingdom be undisturbed in caring for their own affairs.
    24: We have heard that the Jews do not consent to our father's change to Greek customs but prefer their own way of living and ask that their own customs be allowed them.
    25: Accordingly, since we choose that this nation also be free from disturbance, our decision is that their temple be restored to them and that they live according to the customs of their ancestors.
    26: You will do well, therefore, to send word to them and give them pledges of friendship, so that they may know our policy and be of good cheer and go on happily in the conduct of their own affairs."
    27: To the nation the king's letter was as follows: "King Antiochus to the senate of the Jews and to the other Jews, greeting.
    28: If you are well, it is as we desire. We also are in good health.
    29: Menelaus has informed us that you wish to return home and look after your own affairs.
    30: Therefore those who go home by the thirtieth day of Xanthicus will have our pledge of friendship and full permission
    31: for the Jews to enjoy their own food and laws, just as formerly, and none of them shall be molested in any way for what he may have done in ignorance.
    32: And I have also sent Menelaus to encourage you.
    33: Farewell. The one hundred and forty-eighth year, Xanthicus fifteenth."
    34: The Romans also sent them a letter, which read thus: "Quintus Memmius and Titus Manius, envoys of the Romans, to the people of the Jews, greeting.
    35: With regard to what Lysias the kinsman of the king has granted you, we also give consent.
    36: But as to the matters which he decided are to be referred to the king, as soon as you have considered them, send some one promptly, so that we may make proposals appropriate for you. For we are on our way to Antioch.
    37: Therefore make haste and send some men, so that we may have your judgment.
    38: Farewell. The one hundred and forty-eighth year, Xanthicus fifteenth."

  Chapter 12.

    1: When this agreement had been reached, Lysias returned to the king, and the Jews went about their farming.
    2: But some of the governors in various places, Timothy and Apollonius the son of Gennaeus, as well as Hieronymus and Demophon, and in addition to these Nicanor the governor of Cyprus, would not let them live quietly and in peace.
    3: And some men of Joppa did so ungodly a deed as this: they invited the Jews who lived among them to embark, with their wives and children, on boats which they had provided, as though there were no ill will to the Jews;
    4: and this was done by public vote of the city. And when they accepted, because they wished to live peaceably and suspected nothing, the men of Joppa took them out to sea and drowned them, not less than two hundred.
    5: When Judas heard of the cruelty visited on his countrymen, he gave orders to his men
    6: and, calling upon God the righteous Judge, attacked the murderers of his brethren. He set fire to the harbor by night, and burned the boats, and massacred those who had taken refuge there.
    7: Then, because the city's gates were closed, he withdrew, intending to come again and root out the whole community of Joppa.
    8: But learning that the men in Jamnia meant in the same way to wipe out the Jews who were living among them,
    9: he attacked the people of Jamnia by night and set fire to the harbor and the fleet, so that the glow of the light was seen in Jerusalem, thirty miles distant.
    10: When they had gone more than a mile from there, on their march against Timothy, not less than five thousand Arabs with five hundred horsemen attacked them.
    11: After a hard fight Judas and his men won the victory, by the help of God. The defeated nomads besought Judas to grant them pledges of friendship, promising to give him cattle and to help his people in all other ways.
    12: Judas, thinking that they might really be useful in many ways, agreed to make peace with them; and after receiving his pledges they departed to their tents.
    13: He also attacked a certain city which was strongly fortified with earthworks and walls, and inhabited by all sorts of Gentiles. Its name was Caspin.
    14: And those who were within, relying on the strength of the walls and on their supply of provisions, behaved most insolently toward Judas and his men, railing at them and even blaspheming and saying unholy things.
    15: But Judas and his men, calling upon the great Sovereign of the world, who without battering-rams or engines of war overthrew Jericho in the days of Joshua, rushed furiously upon the walls.
    16: They took the city by the will of God, and slaughtered untold numbers, so that the adjoining lake, a quarter of a mile wide, appeared to be running over with blood.
    17: When they had gone ninety-five miles from there, they came to Charax, to the Jews who are called Toubiani.
    18: They did not find Timothy in that region, for he had by then departed from the region without accomplishing anything, though in one place he had left a very strong garrison.
    19: Dositheus and Sosipater, who were captains under Maccabeus, marched out and destroyed those whom Timothy had left in the stronghold, more than ten thousand men.
    20: But Maccabeus arranged his army in divisions, set men in command of the divisions, and hastened after Timothy, who had with him a hundred and twenty thousand infantry and two thousand five hundred cavalry.
    21: When Timothy learned of the approach of Judas, he sent off the women and the children and also the baggage to a place called Carnaim; for that place was hard to besiege and difficult of access because of the narrowness of all the approaches.
    22: But when Judas' first division appeared, terror and fear came over the enemy at the manifestation to them of him who sees all things; and they rushed off in flight and were swept on, this way and that, so that often they were injured by their own men and pierced by the points of their swords.
    23: And Judas pressed the pursuit with the utmost vigor, putting the sinners to the sword, and destroyed as many as thirty thousand men.
    24: Timothy himself fell into the hands of Dositheus and Sosipater and their men. With great guile he besought them to let him go in safety, because he held the parents of most of them and the brothers of some and no consideration would be shown them.
    25: And when with many words he had confirmed his solemn promise to restore them unharmed, they let him go, for the sake of saving their brethren.
    26: Then Judas marched against Carnaim and the temple of Atargatis, and slaughtered twenty-five thousand people.
    27: After the rout and destruction of these, he marched also against Ephron, a fortified city where Lysias dwelt with multitudes of people of all nationalities. Stalwart young men took their stand before the walls and made a vigorous defense; and great stores of war engines and missiles were there.
    28: But the Jews called upon the Sovereign who with power shatters the might of his enemies, and they got the city into their hands, and killed as many as twenty-five thousand of those who were within it.
    29: Setting out from there, they hastened to Scythopolis, which is seventy-five miles from Jerusalem.
    30: But when the Jews who dwelt there bore witness to the good will which the people of Scythopolis had shown them and their kind treatment of them in times of misfortune,
    31: they thanked them and exhorted them to be well disposed to their race in the future also. Then they went up to Jerusalem, as the feast of weeks was close at hand.
    32: After the feast called Pentecost, they hastened against Gorgias, the governor of Idumea.
    33: And he came out with three thousand infantry and four hundred cavalry.
    34: When they joined battle, it happened that a few of the Jews fell.
    35: But a certain Dositheus, one of Bacenor's men, who was on horseback and was a strong man, caught hold of Gorgias, and grasping his cloak was dragging him off by main strength, wishing to take the accursed man alive, when one of the Thracian horsemen bore down upon him and cut off his arm; so Gorgias escaped and reached Marisa.
    36: As Esdris and his men had been fighting for a long time and were weary, Judas called upon the Lord to show himself their ally and leader in the battle.
    37: In the language of their fathers he raised the battle cry, with hymns; then he charged against Gorgias' men when they were not expecting it, and put them to flight.
    38: Then Judas assembled his army and went to the city of Adullam. As the seventh day was coming on, they purified themselves according to the custom, and they kept the sabbath there.
    39: On the next day, as by that time it had become necessary, Judas and his men went to take up the bodies of the fallen and to bring them back to lie with their kinsmen in the sepulchres of their fathers.
    40: Then under the tunic of every one of the dead they found sacred tokens of the idols of Jamnia, which the law forbids the Jews to wear. And it became clear to all that this was why these men had fallen.
    41: So they all blessed the ways of the Lord, the righteous Judge, who reveals the things that are hidden;
    42: and they turned to prayer, beseeching that the sin which had been committed might be wholly blotted out. And the noble Judas exhorted the people to keep themselves free from sin, for they had seen with their own eyes what had happened because of the sin of those who had fallen.
    43: He also took up a collection, man by man, to the amount of two thousand drachmas of silver, and sent it to Jerusalem to provide for a sin offering. In doing this he acted very well and honorably, taking account of the resurrection.
    44: For if he were not expecting that those who had fallen would rise again, it would have been superfluous and foolish to pray for the dead.
    45: But if he was looking to the splendid reward that is laid up for those who fall asleep in godliness, it was a holy and pious thought. Therefore he made atonement for the dead, that they might be delivered from their sin.

End of day 131.