Day 178:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['137', '138', '139', '140']:

  Chapter 137.

    1: By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down and wept, when we remembered Zion.
    2: On the willows there we hung up our lyres.
    3: For there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors, mirth, saying, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion!"
    4: How shall we sing the LORD's song in a foreign land?
    5: If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand wither!
    6: Let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy!
    7: Remember, O LORD, against the E'domites the day of Jerusalem, how they said, "Rase it, rase it! Down to its foundations!"
    8: O daughter of Babylon, you devastator! Happy shall he be who requites you with what you have done to us!
    9: Happy shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock!

  Chapter 138.

    1: I give thee thanks, O LORD, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing thy praise;
    2: I bow down toward thy holy temple and give thanks to thy name for thy steadfast love and thy faithfulness; for thou hast exalted above everything thy name and thy word.
    3: On the day I called, thou didst answer me, my strength of soul thou didst increase.
    4: All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, for they have heard the words of thy mouth;
    5: and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, for great is the glory of the LORD.
    6: For though the LORD is high, he regards the lowly; but the haughty he knows from afar.
    7: Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou dost preserve my life; thou dost stretch out thy hand against the wrath of my enemies, and thy right hand delivers me.
    8: The LORD will fulfil his purpose for me; thy steadfast love, O LORD, endures for ever. Do not forsake the work of thy hands.

  Chapter 139.

    1: O LORD, thou hast searched me and known me!
    2: Thou knowest when I sit down and when I rise up; thou discernest my thoughts from afar.
    3: Thou searchest out my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.
    4: Even before a word is on my tongue, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether.
    5: Thou dost beset me behind and before, and layest thy hand upon me.
    6: Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain it.
    7: Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
    8: If I ascend to heaven, thou art there! If I make my bed in Sheol, thou art there!
    9: If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,
    10: even there thy hand shall lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
    11: If I say, "Let only darkness cover me, and the light about me be night,"
    12: even the darkness is not dark to thee, the night is bright as the day; for darkness is as light with thee.
    13: For thou didst form my inward parts, thou didst knit me together in my mother's womb.
    14: I praise thee, for thou art fearful and wonderful. Wonderful are thy works! Thou knowest me right well;
    15: my frame was not hidden from thee, when I was being made in secret, intricately wrought in the depths of the earth.
    16: Thy eyes beheld my unformed substance; in thy book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them.
    17: How precious to me are thy thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
    18: If I would count them, they are more than the sand. When I awake, I am still with thee.
    19: O that thou wouldst slay the wicked, O God, and that men of blood would depart from me,
    20: men who maliciously defy thee, who lift themselves up against thee for evil!
    21: Do I not hate them that hate thee, O LORD? And do I not loathe them that rise up against thee?
    22: I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.
    23: Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts!
    24: And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!

  Chapter 140.

    1: Deliver me, O LORD, from evil men; preserve me from violent men,
    2: who plan evil things in their heart, and stir up wars continually.
    3: They make their tongue sharp as a serpent's, and under their lips is the poison of vipers. [Selah]
    4: Guard me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from violent men, who have planned to trip up my feet.
    5: Arrogant men have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net, by the wayside they have set snares for me. [Selah]
    6: I say to the LORD, Thou art my God; give ear to the voice of my supplications, O LORD!
    7: O LORD, my Lord, my strong deliverer, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.
    8: Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; do not further his evil plot! [Selah]
    9: Those who surround me lift up their head, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them!
    10: Let burning coals fall upon them! Let them be cast into pits, no more to rise!
    11: Let not the slanderer be established in the land; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily!
    12: I know that the LORD maintains the cause of the afflicted, and executes justice for the needy.
    13: Surely the righteous shall give thanks to thy name; the upright shall dwell in thy presence.

End of day 178.