Day 220:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: Ho Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped! Add year to year; let the feasts run their round.
    2: Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be moaning and lamentation, and she shall be to me like an Ariel.
    3: And I will encamp against you round about, and will besiege you with towers and I will raise siegeworks against you.
    4: Then deep from the earth you shall speak, from low in the dust your words shall come; your voice shall come from the ground like the voice of a ghost, and your speech shall whisper out of the dust.
    5: But the multitude of your foes shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the ruthless like passing chaff. And in an instant, suddenly,
    6: you will be visited by the LORD of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire.
    7: And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all that fight against her and her stronghold and distress her, shall be like a dream, a vision of the night.
    8: As when a hungry man dreams he is eating and awakes with his hunger not satisfied, or as when a thirsty man dreams he is drinking and awakes faint, with his thirst not quenched, so shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion.
    9: Stupefy yourselves and be in a stupor, blind yourselves and be blind! Be drunk, but not with wine; stagger, but not with strong drink!
    10: For the LORD has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes, the prophets, and covered your heads, the seers.
    11: And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot, for it is sealed."
    12: And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, "Read this," he says, "I cannot read."
    13: And the Lord said: "Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment of men learned by rote;
    14: therefore, behold, I will again do marvelous things with this people, wonderful and marvelous; and the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hid."
    15: Woe to those who hide deep from the LORD their counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, "Who sees us? Who knows us?"
    16: You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay; that the thing made should say of its maker, "He did not make me"; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, "He has no understanding"?
    17: Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest?
    18: In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see.
    19: The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the LORD, and the poor among men shall exult in the Holy One of Israel.
    20: For the ruthless shall come to nought and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut off,
    21: who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate, and with an empty plea turn aside him who is in the right.
    22: Therefore thus says the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: "Jacob shall no more be ashamed, no more shall his face grow pale.
    23: For when he sees his children, the work of my hands, in his midst, they will sanctify my name; they will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
    24: And those who err in spirit will come to understanding, and those who murmur will accept instruction."

  Chapter 30.

    1: "Woe to the rebellious children," says the LORD, "who carry out a plan, but not mine; and who make a league, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin;
    2: who set out to go down to Egypt, without asking for my counsel, to take refuge in the protection of Pharaoh, and to seek shelter in the shadow of Egypt!
    3: Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to your humiliation.
    4: For though his officials are at Zo'an and his envoys reach Ha'nes,
    5: every one comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them, that brings neither help nor profit, but shame and disgrace."
    6: An oracle on the beasts of the Negeb. Through a land of trouble and anguish, from where come the lioness and the lion, the viper and the flying serpent, they carry their riches on the backs of asses, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people that cannot profit them.
    7: For Egypt's help is worthless and empty, therefore I have called her "Rahab who sits still."
    8: And now, go, write it before them on a tablet, and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come as a witness for ever.
    9: For they are a rebellious people, lying sons, sons who will not hear the instruction of the LORD;
    10: who say to the seers, "See not"; and to the prophets, "Prophesy not to us what is right; speak to us smooth things, prophesy illusions,
    11: leave the way, turn aside from the path, let us hear no more of the Holy One of Israel."
    12: Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, "Because you despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and rely on them;
    13: therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a break in a high wall, bulging out, and about to collapse, whose crash comes suddenly, in an instant;
    14: and its breaking is like that of a potter's vessel which is smashed so ruthlessly that among its fragments not a sherd is found with which to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern."
    15: For thus said the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, "In returning and rest you shall be saved; in quietness and in trust shall be your strength." And you would not,
    16: but you said, "No! We will speed upon horses," therefore you shall speed away; and, "We will ride upon swift steeds," therefore your pursuers shall be swift.
    17: A thousand shall flee at the threat of one, at the threat of five you shall flee, till you are left like a flagstaff on the top of a mountain, like a signal on a hill.
    18: Therefore the LORD waits to be gracious to you; therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to you. For the LORD is a God of justice; blessed are all those who wait for him.
    19: Yea, O people in Zion who dwell at Jerusalem; you shall weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry; when he hears it, he will answer you.
    20: And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide himself any more, but your eyes shall see your Teacher.
    21: And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, "This is the way, walk in it," when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left.
    22: Then you will defile your silver-covered graven images and your gold-plated molten images. You will scatter them as unclean things; you will say to them, "Begone!"
    23: And he will give rain for the seed with which you sow the ground, and grain, the produce of the ground, which will be rich and plenteous. In that day your cattle will graze in large pastures;
    24: and the oxen and the asses that till the ground will eat salted provender, which has been winnowed with shovel and fork.
    25: And upon every lofty mountain and every high hill there will be brooks running with water, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
    26: Moreover the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day when the LORD binds up the hurt of his people, and heals the wounds inflicted by his blow.
    27: Behold, the name of the LORD comes from far, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke; his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is like a devouring fire;
    28: his breath is like an overflowing stream that reaches up to the neck; to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction, and to place on the jaws of the peoples a bridle that leads astray.
    29: You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one sets out to the sound of the flute to go to the mountain of the LORD, to the Rock of Israel.
    30: And the LORD will cause his majestic voice to be heard and the descending blow of his arm to be seen, in furious anger and a flame of devouring fire, with a cloudburst and tempest and hailstones.
    31: The Assyrians will be terror-stricken at the voice of the LORD, when he smites with his rod.
    32: And every stroke of the staff of punishment which the LORD lays upon them will be to the sound of timbrels and lyres; battling with brandished arm he will fight with them.
    33: For a burning place has long been prepared; yea, for the king it is made ready, its pyre made deep and wide, with fire and wood in abundance; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, kindles it.

  Chapter 31.

    1: Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help and rely on horses, who trust in chariots because they are many and in horsemen because they are very strong, but do not look to the Holy One of Israel or consult the LORD!
    2: And yet he is wise and brings disaster, he does not call back his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers, and against the helpers of those who work iniquity.
    3: The Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses are flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD stretches out his hand, the helper will stumble, and he who is helped will fall, and they will all perish together.
    4: For thus the LORD said to me, As a lion or a young lion growls over his prey, and when a band of shepherds is called forth against him is not terrified by their shouting or daunted at their noise, so the LORD of hosts will come down to fight upon Mount Zion and upon its hill.
    5: Like birds hovering, so the LORD of hosts will protect Jerusalem; he will protect and deliver it, he will spare and rescue it.
    6: Turn to him from whom you have deeply revolted, O people of Israel.
    7: For in that day every one shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have sinfully made for you.
    8: "And the Assyrian shall fall by a sword, not of man; and a sword, not of man, shall devour him; and he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be put to forced labor.
    9: His rock shall pass away in terror, and his officers desert the standard in panic," says the LORD, whose fire is in Zion, and whose furnace is in Jerusalem.

  Chapter 32.

    1: Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice.
    2: Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a covert from the tempest, like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
    3: Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will hearken.
    4: The mind of the rash will have good judgment, and the tongue of the stammerers will speak readily and distinctly.
    5: The fool will no more be called noble, nor the knave said to be honorable.
    6: For the fool speaks folly, and his mind plots iniquity: to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the LORD, to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
    7: The knaveries of the knave are evil; he devises wicked devices to ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right.
    8: But he who is noble devises noble things, and by noble things he stands.
    9: Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice; you complacent daughters, give ear to my speech.
    10: In little more than a year you will shudder, you complacent women; for the vintage will fail, the fruit harvest will not come.
    11: Tremble, you women who are at ease, shudder, you complacent ones; strip, and make yourselves bare, and gird sackcloth upon your loins.
    12: Beat upon your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine,
    13: for the soil of my people growing up in thorns and briers; yea, for all the joyous houses in the joyful city.
    14: For the palace will be forsaken, the populous city deserted; the hill and the watchtower will become dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks;
    15: until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is deemed a forest.
    16: Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
    17: And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust for ever.
    18: My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
    19: And the forest will utterly go down, and the city will be utterly laid low.
    20: Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the ass range free.

End of day 220.