Day 359:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['21', '22']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.
    2: And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband;
    3: and I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, "Behold, the dwelling of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them;
    4: he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away."
    5: And he who sat upon the throne said, "Behold, I make all things new." Also he said, "Write this, for these words are trustworthy and true."
    6: And he said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the fountain of the water of life without payment.
    7: He who conquers shall have this heritage, and I will be his God and he shall be my son.
    8: But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the polluted, as for murderers, fornicators, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their lot shall be in the lake that burns with fire and sulphur, which is the second death."
    9: Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, "Come, I will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb."
    10: And in the Spirit he carried me away to a great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God,
    11: having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
    12: It had a great, high wall, with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed;
    13: on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
    14: And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
    15: And he who talked to me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls.
    16: The city lies foursquare, its length the same as its breadth; and he measured the city with his rod, twelve thousand stadia; its length and breadth and height are equal.
    17: He also measured its wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits by a man's measure, that is, an angel's.
    18: The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass.
    19: The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every jewel; the first was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,
    20: the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
    21: And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass.
    22: And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb.
    23: And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine upon it, for the glory of God is its light, and its lamp is the Lamb.
    24: By its light shall the nations walk; and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory into it,
    25: and its gates shall never be shut by day -- and there shall be no night there;
    26: they shall bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations.
    27: But nothing unclean shall enter it, nor any one who practices abomination or falsehood, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.

  Chapter 22.

    1: Then he showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb
    2: through the middle of the street of the city; also, on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
    3: There shall no more be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall worship him;
    4: they shall see his face, and his name shall be on their foreheads.
    5: And night shall be no more; they need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they shall reign for ever and ever.
    6: And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place.
    7: And behold, I am coming soon." Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
    8: I John am he who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me;
    9: but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brethren the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God."
    10: And he said to me, "Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.
    11: Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy."
    12: "Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense, to repay every one for what he has done.
    13: I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end."
    14: Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates.
    15: Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and fornicators and murderers and idolaters, and every one who loves and practices falsehood.
    16: "I Jesus have sent my angel to you with this testimony for the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star."
    17: The Spirit and the Bride say, "Come." And let him who hears say, "Come." And let him who is thirsty come, let him who desires take the water of life without price.
    18: I warn every one who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if any one adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book,
    19: and if any one takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book.
    20: He who testifies to these things says, "Surely I am coming soon." Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
    21: The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.

End of day 359.