Day 187:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD; he turns it wherever he will.
    2: Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the heart.
    3: To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
    4: Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin.
    5: The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but every one who is hasty comes only to want.
    6: The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death.
    7: The violence of the wicked will sweep them away, because they refuse to do what is just.
    8: The way of the guilty is crooked, but the conduct of the pure is right.
    9: It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a contentious woman.
    10: The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
    11: When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; when a wise man is instructed, he gains knowledge.
    12: The righteous observes the house of the wicked; the wicked are cast down to ruin.
    13: He who closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself cry out and not be heard.
    14: A gift in secret averts anger; and a bribe in the bosom, strong wrath.
    15: When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous, but dismay to evildoers.
    16: A man who wanders from the way of understanding will rest in the assembly of the dead.
    17: He who loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich.
    18: The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, and the faithless for the upright.
    19: It is better to live in a desert land than with a contentious and fretful woman.
    20: Precious treasure remains in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it.
    21: He who pursues righteousness and kindness will find life and honor.
    22: A wise man scales the city of the mighty and brings down the stronghold in which they trust.
    23: He who keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble.
    24: "Scoffer" is the name of the proud, haughty man who acts with arrogant pride.
    25: The desire of the sluggard kills him for his hands refuse to labor.
    26: All day long the wicked covets, but the righteous gives and does not hold back.
    27: The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; how much more when he brings it with evil intent.
    28: A false witness will perish, but the word of a man who hears will endure.
    29: A wicked man puts on a bold face, but an upright man considers his ways.
    30: No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel, can avail against the LORD.
    31: The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the LORD.

  Chapter 22.

    1: A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold.
    2: The rich and the poor meet together; the LORD is the maker of them all.
    3: A prudent man sees danger and hides himself; but the simple go on, and suffer for it.
    4: The reward for humility and fear of the LORD is riches and honor and life.
    5: Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse; he who guards himself will keep far from them.
    6: Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.
    7: The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender.
    8: He who sows injustice will reap calamity, and the rod of his fury will fail.
    9: He who has a bountiful eye will be blessed, for he shares his bread with the poor.
    10: Drive out a scoffer, and strife will go out, and quarreling and abuse will cease.
    11: He who loves purity of heart, and whose speech is gracious, will have the king as his friend.
    12: The eyes of the LORD keep watch over knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the faithless.
    13: The sluggard says, "There is a lion outside! I shall be slain in the streets!"
    14: The mouth of a loose woman is a deep pit; he with whom the LORD is angry will fall into it.
    15: Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
    16: He who oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to want.
    17: Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your mind to my knowledge;
    18: for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.
    19: That your trust may be in the LORD, I have made them known to you today, even to you.
    20: Have I not written for you thirty sayings of admonition and knowledge,
    21: to show you what is right and true, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you?
    22: Do not rob the poor, because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate;
    23: for the LORD will plead their cause and despoil of life those who despoil them.
    24: Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man,
    25: lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.
    26: Be not one of those who give pledges, who become surety for debts.
    27: If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?
    28: Remove not the ancient landmark which your fathers have set.
    29: Do you see a man skilful in his work? he will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure men.

  Chapter 23.

    1: When you sit down to eat with a ruler, observe carefully what is before you;
    2: and put a knife to your throat if you are a man given to appetite.
    3: Do not desire his delicacies, for they are deceptive food.
    4: Do not toil to acquire wealth; be wise enough to desist.
    5: When your eyes light upon it, it is gone; for suddenly it takes to itself wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.
    6: Do not eat the bread of a man who is stingy; do not desire his delicacies;
    7: for he is like one who is inwardly reckoning. "Eat and drink!" he says to you; but his heart is not with you.
    8: You will vomit up the morsels which you have eaten, and waste your pleasant words.
    9: Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.
    10: Do not remove an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless;
    11: for their Redeemer is strong; he will plead their cause against you.
    12: Apply your mind to instruction and your ear to words of knowledge.
    13: Do not withhold discipline from a child; if you beat him with a rod, he will not die.
    14: If you beat him with the rod you will save his life from Sheol.
    15: My son, if your heart is wise, my heart too will be glad.
    16: My soul will rejoice when your lips speak what is right.
    17: Let not your heart envy sinners, but continue in the fear of the LORD all the day.
    18: Surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
    19: Hear, my son, and be wise, and direct your mind in the way.
    20: Be not among winebibbers, or among gluttonous eaters of meat;
    21: for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, and drowsiness will clothe a man with rags.
    22: Hearken to your father who begot you, and do not despise your mother when she is old.
    23: Buy truth, and do not sell it; buy wisdom, instruction, and understanding.
    24: The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice; he who begets a wise son will be glad in him.
    25: Let your father and mother be glad, let her who bore you rejoice.
    26: My son, give me your heart, and let your eyes observe my ways.
    27: For a harlot is a deep pit; an adventuress is a narrow well.
    28: She lies in wait like a robber and increases the faithless among men.
    29: Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes?
    30: Those who tarry long over wine, those who go to try mixed wine.
    31: Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly.
    32: At the last it bites like a serpent, and stings like an adder.
    33: Your eyes will see strange things, and your mind utter perverse things.
    34: You will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, like one who lies on the top of a mast.
    35: "They struck me," you will say, "but I was not hurt; they beat me, but I did not feel it. When shall I awake? I will seek another drink."

  Chapter 24.

    1: Be not envious of evil men, nor desire to be with them;
    2: for their minds devise violence, and their lips talk of mischief.
    3: By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established;
    4: by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
    5: A wise man is mightier than a strong man, and a man of knowledge than he who has strength;
    6: for by wise guidance you can wage your war, and in abundance of counselors there is victory.
    7: Wisdom is too high for a fool; in the gate he does not open his mouth.
    8: He who plans to do evil will be called a mischief-maker.
    9: The devising of folly is sin, and the scoffer is an abomination to men.
    10: If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small.
    11: Rescue those who are being taken away to death; hold back those who are stumbling to the slaughter.
    12: If you say, "Behold, we did not know this," does not he who weighs the heart perceive it? Does not he who keeps watch over your soul know it, and will he not requite man according to his work?
    13: My son, eat honey, for it is good, and the drippings of the honeycomb are sweet to your taste.
    14: Know that wisdom is such to your soul; if you find it, there will be a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
    15: Lie not in wait as a wicked man against the dwelling of the righteous; do not violence to his home;
    16: for a righteous man falls seven times, and rises again; but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
    17: Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and let not your heart be glad when he stumbles;
    18: lest the LORD see it, and be displeased, and turn away his anger from him.
    19: Fret not yourself because of evildoers, and be not envious of the wicked;
    20: for the evil man has no future; the lamp of the wicked will be put out.
    21: My son, fear the LORD and the king, and do not disobey either of them;
    22: for disaster from them will rise suddenly, and who knows the ruin that will come from them both?
    23: These also are sayings of the wise. Partiality in judging is not good.
    24: He who says to the wicked, "You are innocent," will be cursed by peoples, abhorred by nations;
    25: but those who rebuke the wicked will have delight, and a good blessing will be upon them.
    26: He who gives a right answer kisses the lips.
    27: Prepare your work outside, get everything ready for you in the field; and after that build your house.
    28: Be not a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your lips.
    29: Do not say, "I will do to him as he has done to me; I will pay the man back for what he has done."
    30: I passed by the field of a sluggard, by the vineyard of a man without sense;
    31: and lo, it was all overgrown with thorns; the ground was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.
    32: Then I saw and considered it; I looked and received instruction.
    33: A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest,
    34: and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.

End of day 187.