Day 46:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: "If there is a dispute between men, and they come into court, and the judges decide between them, acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty,
    2: then if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence with a number of stripes in proportion to his offense.
    3: Forty stripes may be given him, but not more; lest, if one should go on to beat him with more stripes than these, your brother be degraded in your sight.
    4: "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.
    5: "If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married outside the family to a stranger; her husband's brother shall go in to her, and take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
    6: And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his brother who is dead, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel.
    7: And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders, and say, `My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.'
    8: Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak to him: and if he persists, saying, `I do not wish to take her,'
    9: then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders, and pull his sandal off his foot, and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say, `So shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house.'
    10: And the name of his house shall be called in Israel, The house of him that had his sandal pulled off.
    11: "When men fight with one another, and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him, and puts out her hand and seizes him by the private parts,
    12: then you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall have no pity.
    13: "You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small.
    14: You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small.
    15: A full and just weight you shall have, a full and just measure you shall have; that your days may be prolonged in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
    16: For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are an abomination to the LORD your God.
    17: "Remember what Am'alek did to you on the way as you came out of Egypt,
    18: how he attacked you on the way, when you were faint and weary, and cut off at your rear all who lagged behind you; and he did not fear God.
    19: Therefore when the LORD your God has given you rest from all your enemies round about, in the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the remembrance of Am'alek from under heaven; you shall not forget.

  Chapter 26.

    1: "When you come into the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance, and have taken possession of it, and live in it,
    2: you shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you harvest from your land that the LORD your God gives you, and you shall put it in a basket, and you shall go to the place which the LORD your God will choose, to make his name to dwell there.
    3: And you shall go to the priest who is in office at that time, and say to him, `I declare this day to the LORD your God that I have come into the land which the LORD swore to our fathers to give us.'
    4: Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand, and set it down before the altar of the LORD your God.
    5: "And you shall make response before the LORD your God, `A wandering Aramean was my father; and he went down into Egypt and sojourned there, few in number; and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
    6: And the Egyptians treated us harshly, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage.
    7: Then we cried to the LORD the God of our fathers, and the LORD heard our voice, and saw our affliction, our toil, and our oppression;
    8: and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, with great terror, with signs and wonders;
    9: and he brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
    10: And behold, now I bring the first of the fruit of the ground, which thou, O LORD, hast given me.' And you shall set it down before the LORD your God, and worship before the LORD your God;
    11: and you shall rejoice in all the good which the LORD your God has given to you and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the sojourner who is among you.
    12: "When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce in the third year, which is the year of tithing, giving it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that they may eat within your towns and be filled,
    13: then you shall say before the LORD your God, `I have removed the sacred portion out of my house, and moreover I have given it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou hast commanded me; I have not transgressed any of thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them;
    14: I have not eaten of the tithe while I was mourning, or removed any of it while I was unclean, or offered any of it to the dead; I have obeyed the voice of the LORD my God, I have done according to all that thou hast commanded me.
    15: Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thy people Israel and the ground which thou hast given us, as thou didst swear to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.'
    16: "This day the LORD your God commands you to do these statutes and ordinances; you shall therefore be careful to do them with all your heart and with all your soul.
    17: You have declared this day concerning the LORD that he is your God, and that you will walk in his ways, and keep his statutes and his commandments and his ordinances, and will obey his voice;
    18: and the LORD has declared this day concerning you that you are a people for his own possession, as he has promised you, and that you are to keep all his commandments,
    19: that he will set you high above all nations that he has made, in praise and in fame and in honor, and that you shall be a people holy to the LORD your God, as he has spoken."

  Chapter 27.

    1: Now Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, "Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
    2: And on the day you pass over the Jordan to the land which the LORD your God gives you, you shall set up large stones, and plaster them with plaster;
    3: and you shall write upon them all the words of this law, when you pass over to enter the land which the LORD your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
    4: And when you have passed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, concerning which I command you this day, on Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
    5: And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones; you shall lift up no iron tool upon them.
    6: You shall build an altar to the LORD your God of unhewn stones; and you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the LORD your God;
    7: and you shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there; and you shall rejoice before the LORD your God.
    8: And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly."
    9: And Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, "Keep silence and hear, O Israel: this day you have become the people of the LORD your God.
    10: You shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD your God, keeping his commandments and his statutes, which I command you this day."
    11: And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
    12: "When you have passed over the Jordan, these shall stand upon Mount Ger'izim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Is'sachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
    13: And these shall stand upon Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zeb'ulun, Dan, and Naph'tali.
    14: And the Levites shall declare to all the men of Israel with a loud voice:
    15: "`Cursed be the man who makes a graven or molten image, an abomination to the LORD, a thing made by the hands of a craftsman, and sets it up in secret.' And all the people shall answer and say, `Amen.'
    16: "`Cursed be he who dishonors his father or his mother.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    17: "`Cursed be he who removes his neighbor's landmark.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    18: "`Cursed be he who misleads a blind man on the road.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    19: "`Cursed be he who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    20: "`Cursed be he who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered her who is his father's.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    21: "`Cursed be he who lies with any kind of beast.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    22: "`Cursed be he who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    23: "`Cursed be he who lies with his mother-in-law.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    24: "`Cursed be he who slays his neighbor in secret.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    25: "`Cursed be he who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'
    26: "`Cursed be he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them.' And all the people shall say, `Amen.'

  Chapter 28.

    1: "And if you obey the voice of the LORD your God, being careful to do all his commandments which I command you this day, the LORD your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth.
    2: And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you obey the voice of the LORD your God.
    3: Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
    4: Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your beasts, the increase of your cattle, and the young of your flock.
    5: Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading-trough.
    6: Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
    7: "The LORD will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you; they shall come out against you one way, and flee before you seven ways.
    8: The LORD will command the blessing upon you in your barns, and in all that you undertake; and he will bless you in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
    9: The LORD will establish you as a people holy to himself, as he has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and walk in his ways.
    10: And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD; and they shall be afraid of you.
    11: And the LORD will make you abound in prosperity, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your ground, within the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give you.
    12: The LORD will open to you his good treasury the heavens, to give the rain of your land in its season and to bless all the work of your hands; and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow.
    13: And the LORD will make you the head, and not the tail; and you shall tend upward only, and not downward; if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day, being careful to do them,
    14: and if you do not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
    15: "But if you will not obey the voice of the LORD your God or be careful to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command you this day, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you.
    16: Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
    17: Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading-trough.
    18: Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your cattle, and the young of your flock.
    19: Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
    20: "The LORD will send upon you curses, confusion, and frustration, in all that you undertake to do, until you are destroyed and perish quickly, on account of the evil of your doings, because you have forsaken me.
    21: The LORD will make the pestilence cleave to you until he has consumed you off the land which you are entering to take possession of it.
    22: The LORD will smite you with consumption, and with fever, inflammation, and fiery heat, and with drought, and with blasting, and with mildew; they shall pursue you until you perish.
    23: And the heavens over your head shall be brass, and the earth under you shall be iron.
    24: The LORD will make the rain of your land powder and dust; from heaven it shall come down upon you until you are destroyed.
    25: "The LORD will cause you to be defeated before your enemies; you shall go out one way against them, and flee seven ways before them; and you shall be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
    26: And your dead body shall be food for all birds of the air, and for the beasts of the earth; and there shall be no one to frighten them away.
    27: The LORD will smite you with the boils of Egypt, and with the ulcers and the scurvy and the itch, of which you cannot be healed.
    28: The LORD will smite you with madness and blindness and confusion of mind;
    29: and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind grope in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways; and you shall be only oppressed and robbed continually, and there shall be no one to help you.
    30: You shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her; you shall build a house, and you shall not dwell in it; you shall plant a vineyard, and you shall not use the fruit of it.
    31: Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and you shall not eat of it; your ass shall be violently taken away before your face, and shall not be restored to you; your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and there shall be no one to help you.
    32: Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, while your eyes look on and fail with longing for them all the day; and it shall not be in the power of your hand to prevent it.
    33: A nation which you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your ground and of all your labors; and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually;
    34: so that you shall be driven mad by the sight which your eyes shall see.
    35: The LORD will smite you on the knees and on the legs with grievous boils of which you cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
    36: "The LORD will bring you, and your king whom you set over you, to a nation that neither you nor your fathers have known; and there you shall serve other gods, of wood and stone.
    37: And you shall become a horror, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples where the LORD will lead you away.
    38: You shall carry much seed into the field, and shall gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
    39: You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes; for the worm shall eat them.
    40: You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives shall drop off.
    41: You shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours; for they shall go into captivity.
    42: All your trees and the fruit of your ground the locust shall possess.
    43: The sojourner who is among you shall mount above you higher and higher; and you shall come down lower and lower.
    44: He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him; he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
    45: All these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you, till you are destroyed, because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded you.
    46: They shall be upon you as a sign and a wonder, and upon your descendants for ever.
    47: "Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things,
    48: therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD will send against you, in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and in want of all things; and he will put a yoke of iron upon your neck, until he has destroyed you.
    49: The LORD will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies, a nation whose language you do not understand,
    50: a nation of stern countenance, who shall not regard the person of the old or show favor to the young,
    51: and shall eat the offspring of your cattle and the fruit of your ground, until you are destroyed; who also shall not leave you grain, wine, or oil, the increase of your cattle or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish.
    52: They shall besiege you in all your towns, until your high and fortified walls, in which you trusted, come down throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you in all your towns throughout all your land, which the LORD your God has given you.
    53: And you shall eat the offspring of your own body, the flesh of your sons and daughters, whom the LORD your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you.
    54: The man who is the most tender and delicately bred among you will grudge food to his brother, to the wife of his bosom, and to the last of the children who remain to him;
    55: so that he will not give to any of them any of the flesh of his children whom he is eating, because he has nothing left him, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your towns.
    56: The most tender and delicately bred woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot upon the ground because she is so delicate and tender, will grudge to the husband of her bosom, to her son and to her daughter,
    57: her afterbirth that comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears, because she will eat them secretly, for want of all things, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your towns.
    58: "If you are not careful to do all the words of this law which are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awful name, the LORD your God,
    59: then the LORD will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and lasting, and sicknesses grievous and lasting.
    60: And he will bring upon you again all the diseases of Egypt, which you were afraid of; and they shall cleave to you.
    61: Every sickness also, and every affliction which is not recorded in the book of this law, the LORD will bring upon you, until you are destroyed.
    62: Whereas you were as the stars of heaven for multitude, you shall be left few in number; because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
    63: And as the LORD took delight in doing you good and multiplying you, so the LORD will take delight in bringing ruin upon you and destroying you; and you shall be plucked off the land which you are entering to take possession of it.
    64: And the LORD will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other; and there you shall serve other gods, of wood and stone, which neither you nor your fathers have known.
    65: And among these nations you shall find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot; but the LORD will give you there a trembling heart, and failing eyes, and a languishing soul;
    66: your life shall hang in doubt before you; night and day you shall be in dread, and have no assurance of your life.
    67: In the morning you shall say, `Would it were evening!' and at evening you shall say, `Would it were morning!' because of the dread which your heart shall fear, and the sights which your eyes shall see.
    68: And the LORD will bring you back in ships to Egypt, a journey which I promised that you should never make again; and there you shall offer yourselves for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but no man will buy you."

End of day 46.