Day 298:

Reading Luke, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: There were some present at that very time who told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
    2: And he answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered thus?
    3: I tell you, No; but unless you repent you will all likewise perish.
    4: Or those eighteen upon whom the tower in Silo'am fell and killed them, do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who dwelt in Jerusalem?
    5: I tell you, No; but unless you repent you will all likewise perish."
    6: And he told this parable: "A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came seeking fruit on it and found none.
    7: And he said to the vinedresser, `Lo, these three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down; why should it use up the ground?'
    8: And he answered him, `Let it alone, sir, this year also, till I dig about it and put on manure.
    9: And if it bears fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.'"
    10: Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
    11: And there was a woman who had had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years; she was bent over and could not fully straighten herself.
    12: And when Jesus saw her, he called her and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your infirmity."
    13: And he laid his hands upon her, and immediately she was made straight, and she praised God.
    14: But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the sabbath, said to the people, "There are six days on which work ought to be done; come on those days and be healed, and not on the sabbath day."
    15: Then the Lord answered him, "You hypocrites! Does not each of you on the sabbath untie his ox or his ass from the manger, and lead it away to water it?
    16: And ought not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?"
    17: As he said this, all his adversaries were put to shame; and all the people rejoiced at all the glorious things that were done by him.
    18: He said therefore, "What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
    19: It is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and sowed in his garden; and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches."
    20: And again he said, "To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
    21: It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened."
    22: He went on his way through towns and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.
    23: And some one said to him, "Lord, will those who are saved be few?" And he said to them,
    24: "Strive to enter by the narrow door; for many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able.
    25: When once the householder has risen up and shut the door, you will begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, `Lord, open to us.' He will answer you, `I do not know where you come from.'
    26: Then you will begin to say, `We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.'
    27: But he will say, `I tell you, I do not know where you come from; depart from me, all you workers of iniquity!'
    28: There you will weep and gnash your teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God and you yourselves thrust out.
    29: And men will come from east and west, and from north and south, and sit at table in the kingdom of God.
    30: And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last."
    31: At that very hour some Pharisees came, and said to him, "Get away from here, for Herod wants to kill you."
    32: And he said to them, "Go and tell that fox, `Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course.
    33: Nevertheless I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the day following; for it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.'
    34: O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, killing the prophets and stoning those who are sent to you! How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!
    35: Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, `Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!'"

  Chapter 14.

    1: One sabbath when he went to dine at the house of a ruler who belonged to the Pharisees, they were watching him.
    2: And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy.
    3: And Jesus spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath, or not?"
    4: But they were silent. Then he took him and healed him, and let him go.
    5: And he said to them, "Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well, will not immediately pull him out on a sabbath day?"
    6: And they could not reply to this.
    7: Now he told a parable to those who were invited, when he marked how they chose the places of honor, saying to them,
    8: "When you are invited by any one to a marriage feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest a more eminent man than you be invited by him;
    9: and he who invited you both will come and say to you, `Give place to this man,' and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place.
    10: But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to you, `Friend, go up higher'; then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you.
    11: For every one who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted."
    12: He said also to the man who had invited him, "When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your kinsmen or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid.
    13: But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind,
    14: and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. You will be repaid at the resurrection of the just."
    15: When one of those who sat at table with him heard this, he said to him, "Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God!"
    16: But he said to him, "A man once gave a great banquet, and invited many;
    17: and at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, `Come; for all is now ready.'
    18: But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, `I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it; I pray you, have me excused.'
    19: And another said, `I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them; I pray you, have me excused.'
    20: And another said, `I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.'
    21: So the servant came and reported this to his master. Then the householder in anger said to his servant, `Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and maimed and blind and lame.'
    22: And the servant said, `Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.'
    23: And the master said to the servant, `Go out to the highways and hedges, and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled.
    24: For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.'"
    25: Now great multitudes accompanied him; and he turned and said to them,
    26: "If any one comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
    27: Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me, cannot be my disciple.
    28: For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
    29: Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him,
    30: saying, `This man began to build, and was not able to finish.'
    31: Or what king, going to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and take counsel whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
    32: And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends an embassy and asks terms of peace.
    33: So therefore, whoever of you does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.
    34: "Salt is good; but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltness be restored?
    35: It is fit neither for the land nor for the dunghill; men throw it away. He who has ears to hear, let him hear."

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him.
    2: And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, "This man receives sinners and eats with them."
    3: So he told them this parable:
    4: "What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go after the one which is lost, until he finds it?
    5: And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
    6: And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, `Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.'
    7: Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance.
    8: "Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it?
    9: And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, `Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I had lost.'
    10: Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents."
    11: And he said, "There was a man who had two sons;
    12: and the younger of them said to his father, `Father, give me the share of property that falls to me.' And he divided his living between them.
    13: Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took his journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in loose living.
    14: And when he had spent everything, a great famine arose in that country, and he began to be in want.
    15: So he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed swine.
    16: And he would gladly have fed on the pods that the swine ate; and no one gave him anything.
    17: But when he came to himself he said, `How many of my father's hired servants have bread enough and to spare, but I perish here with hunger!
    18: I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you;
    19: I am no longer worthy to be called your son; treat me as one of your hired servants."'
    20: And he arose and came to his father. But while he was yet at a distance, his father saw him and had compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.
    21: And the son said to him, `Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.'
    22: But the father said to his servants, `Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet;
    23: and bring the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and make merry;
    24: for this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.' And they began to make merry.
    25: "Now his elder son was in the field; and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
    26: And he called one of the servants and asked what this meant.
    27: And he said to him, `Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and sound.'
    28: But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,
    29: but he answered his father, `Lo, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command; yet you never gave me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends.
    30: But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your living with harlots, you killed for him the fatted calf!'
    31: And he said to him, `Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
    32: It was fitting to make merry and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.'"

  Chapter 16.

    1: He also said to the disciples, "There was a rich man who had a steward, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his goods.
    2: And he called him and said to him, `What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward.'
    3: And the steward said to himself, `What shall I do, since my master is taking the stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
    4: I have decided what to do, so that people may receive me into their houses when I am put out of the stewardship.'
    5: So, summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, `How much do you owe my master?'
    6: He said, `A hundred measures of oil.' And he said to him, `Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.'
    7: Then he said to another, `And how much do you owe?' He said, `A hundred measures of wheat.' He said to him, `Take your bill, and write eighty.'
    8: The master commended the dishonest steward for his shrewdness; for the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of light.
    9: And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal habitations.
    10: "He who is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much; and he who is dishonest in a very little is dishonest also in much.
    11: If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you the true riches?
    12: And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?
    13: No servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon."
    14: The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all this, and they scoffed at him.
    15: But he said to them, "You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts; for what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
    16: "The law and the prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God is preached, and every one enters it violently.
    17: But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one dot of the law to become void.
    18: "Every one who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.
    19: "There was a rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day.
    20: And at his gate lay a poor man named Laz'arus, full of sores,
    21: who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table; moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
    22: The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried;
    23: and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes, and saw Abraham far off and Laz'arus in his bosom.
    24: And he called out, `Father Abraham, have mercy upon me, and send Laz'arus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame.'
    25: But Abraham said, `Son, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Laz'arus in like manner evil things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.
    26: And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.'
    27: And he said, `Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house,
    28: for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.'
    29: But Abraham said, `They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.'
    30: And he said, `No, father Abraham; but if some one goes to them from the dead, they will repent.'
    31: He said to him, `If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if some one should rise from the dead.'"

End of day 298.