Day 79:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And behold, a man of God came out of Judah by the word of the LORD to Bethel. Jerobo'am was standing by the altar to burn incense.
    2: And the man cried against the altar by the word of the LORD, and said, "O altar, altar, thus says the LORD: `Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josi'ah by name; and he shall sacrifice upon you the priests of the high places who burn incense upon you, and men's bones shall be burned upon you.'"
    3: And he gave a sign the same day, saying, "This is the sign that the LORD has spoken: `Behold, the altar shall be torn down, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.'"
    4: And when the king heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar at Bethel, Jerobo'am stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, "Lay hold of him." And his hand, which he stretched out against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back to himself.
    5: The altar also was torn down, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of the LORD.
    6: And the king said to the man of God, "Entreat now the favor of the LORD your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me." And the man of God entreated the LORD; and the king's hand was restored to him, and became as it was before.
    7: And the king said to the man of God, "Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward."
    8: And the man of God said to the king, "If you give me half your house, I will not go in with you. And I will not eat bread or drink water in this place;
    9: for so was it commanded me by the word of the LORD, saying, `You shall neither eat bread, nor drink water, nor return by the way that you came.'"
    10: So he went another way, and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel.
    11: Now there dwelt an old prophet in Bethel. And his sons came and told him all that the man of God had done that day in Bethel; the words also which he had spoken to the king, they told to their father.
    12: And their father said to them, "Which way did he go?" And his sons showed him the way which the man of God who came from Judah had gone.
    13: And he said to his sons, "Saddle the ass for me." So they saddled the ass for him and he mounted it.
    14: And he went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak; and he said to him, "Are you the man of God who came from Judah?" And he said, "I am."
    15: Then he said to him, "Come home with me and eat bread."
    16: And he said, "I may not return with you, or go in with you; neither will I eat bread nor drink water with you in this place;
    17: for it was said to me by the word of the LORD, `You shall neither eat bread nor drink water there, nor return by the way that you came.'"
    18: And he said to him, "I also am a prophet as you are, and an angel spoke to me by the word of the LORD, saying, `Bring him back with you into your house that he may eat bread and drink water.'" But he lied to him.
    19: So he went back with him, and ate bread in his house, and drank water.
    20: And as they sat at the table, the word of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back;
    21: and he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, "Thus says the LORD, `Because you have disobeyed the word of the LORD, and have not kept the commandment which the LORD your God commanded you,
    22: but have come back, and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to you, "Eat no bread, and drink no water"; your body shall not come to the tomb of your fathers.'"
    23: And after he had eaten bread and drunk, he saddled the ass for the prophet whom he had brought back.
    24: And as he went away a lion met him on the road and killed him. And his body was thrown in the road, and the ass stood beside it; the lion also stood beside the body.
    25: And behold, men passed by, and saw the body thrown in the road, and the lion standing by the body. And they came and told it in the city where the old prophet dwelt.
    26: And when the prophet who had brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, "It is the man of God, who disobeyed the word of the LORD; therefore the LORD has given him to the lion, which has torn him and slain him, according to the word which the LORD spoke to him."
    27: And he said to his sons, "Saddle the ass for me." And they saddled it.
    28: And he went and found his body thrown in the road, and the ass and the lion standing beside the body. The lion had not eaten the body or torn the ass.
    29: And the prophet took up the body of the man of God and laid it upon the ass, and brought it back to the city, to mourn and to bury him.
    30: And he laid the body in his own grave; and they mourned over him, saying, "Alas, my brother!"
    31: And after he had buried him, he said to his sons, "When I die, bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
    32: For the saying which he cried by the word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Sama'ria, shall surely come to pass."
    33: After this thing Jerobo'am did not turn from his evil way, but made priests for the high places again from among all the people; any who would, he consecrated to be priests of the high places.
    34: And this thing became sin to the house of Jerobo'am, so as to cut it off and to destroy it from the face of the earth.

  Chapter 14.

    1: At that time Abi'jah the son of Jerobo'am fell sick.
    2: And Jerobo'am said to his wife, "Arise, and disguise yourself, that it be not known that you are the wife of Jerobo'am, and go to Shiloh; behold, Ahi'jah the prophet is there, who said of me that I should be king over this people.
    3: Take with you ten loaves, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him; he will tell you what shall happen to the child."
    4: Jerobo'am's wife did so; she arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahi'jah. Now Ahi'jah could not see, for his eyes were dim because of his age.
    5: And the LORD said to Ahi'jah, "Behold, the wife of Jerobo'am is coming to inquire of you concerning her son; for he is sick. Thus and thus shall you say to her." When she came, she pretended to be another woman.
    6: But when Ahi'jah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, he said, "Come in, wife of Jerobo'am; why do you pretend to be another? For I am charged with heavy tidings for you.
    7: Go, tell Jerobo'am, `Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: "Because I exalted you from among the people, and made you leader over my people Israel,
    8: and tore the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you; and yet you have not been like my servant David, who kept my commandments, and followed me with all his heart, doing only that which was right in my eyes,
    9: but you have done evil above all that were before you and have gone and made for yourself other gods, and molten images, provoking me to anger, and have cast me behind your back;
    10: therefore behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jerobo'am, and will cut off from Jerobo'am every male, both bond and free in Israel, and will utterly consume the house of Jerobo'am, as a man burns up dung until it is all gone.
    11: Any one belonging to Jerobo'am who dies in the city the dogs shall eat; and any one who dies in the open country the birds of the air shall eat; for the LORD has spoken it."'
    12: Arise therefore, go to your house. When your feet enter the city, the child shall die.
    13: And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him; for he only of Jerobo'am shall come to the grave, because in him there is found something pleasing to the LORD, the God of Israel, in the house of Jerobo'am.
    14: Moreover the LORD will raise up for himself a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Jerobo'am today. And henceforth
    15: the LORD will smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water, and root up Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers, and scatter them beyond the Euphra'tes, because they have made their Ashe'rim, provoking the LORD to anger.
    16: And he will give Israel up because of the sins of Jerobo'am, which he sinned and which he made Israel to sin."
    17: Then Jerobo'am's wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah. And as she came to the threshold of the house, the child died.
    18: And all Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by his servant Ahi'jah the prophet.
    19: Now the rest of the acts of Jerobo'am, how he warred and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
    20: And the time that Jerobo'am reigned was twenty-two years; and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.
    21: Now Rehobo'am the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehobo'am was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. His mother's name was Na'amah the Ammonitess.
    22: And Judah did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they committed, more than all that their fathers had done.
    23: For they also built for themselves high places, and pillars, and Ashe'rim on every high hill and under every green tree;
    24: and there were also male cult prostitutes in the land. They did according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
    25: In the fifth year of King Rehobo'am, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem;
    26: he took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house; he took away everything. He also took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made;
    27: and King Rehobo'am made in their stead shields of bronze, and committed them to the hands of the officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
    28: And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard bore them and brought them back to the guardroom.
    29: Now the rest of the acts of Rehobo'am, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
    30: And there was war between Rehobo'am and Jerobo'am continually.
    31: And Rehobo'am slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. His mother's name was Na'amah the Ammonitess. And Abi'jam his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now in the eighteenth year of King Jerobo'am the son of Nebat, Abi'jam began to reign over Judah.
    2: He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Ma'acah the daughter of Abish'alom.
    3: And he walked in all the sins which his father did before him; and his heart was not wholly true to the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father.
    4: Nevertheless for David's sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son after him, and establishing Jerusalem;
    5: because David did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, and did not turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uri'ah the Hittite.
    6: Now there was war between Rehobo'am and Jerobo'am all the days of his life.
    7: The rest of the acts of Abi'jam, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abi'jam and Jerobo'am.
    8: And Abi'jam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his stead.
    9: In the twentieth year of Jerobo'am king of Israel Asa began to reign over Judah,
    10: and he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Ma'acah the daughter of Abish'alom.
    11: And Asa did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as David his father had done.
    12: He put away the male cult prostitutes out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
    13: He also removed Ma'acah his mother from being queen mother because she had an abominable image made for Ashe'rah; and Asa cut down her image and burned it at the brook Kidron.
    14: But the high places were not taken away. Nevertheless the heart of Asa was wholly true to the LORD all his days.
    15: And he brought into the house of the LORD the votive gifts of his father and his own votive gifts, silver, and gold, and vessels.
    16: And there was war between Asa and Ba'asha king of Israel all their days.
    17: Ba'asha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might permit no one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
    18: Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house, and gave them into the hands of his servants; and King Asa sent them to Ben-ha'dad the son of Tabrim'mon, the son of He'zi-on, king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying,
    19: "Let there be a league between me and you, as between my father and your father: behold, I am sending to you a present of silver and gold; go, break your league with Ba'asha king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me."
    20: And Ben-ha'dad hearkened to King Asa, and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and conquered Ijon, Dan, A'bel-beth-ma'acah, and all Chin'neroth, with all the land of Naph'tali.
    21: And when Ba'asha heard of it, he stopped building Ramah, and he dwelt in Tirzah.
    22: Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah, none was exempt, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Ba'asha had been building; and with them King Asa built Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah.
    23: Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in his old age he was diseased in his feet.
    24: And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehosh'aphat his son reigned in his stead.
    25: Nadab the son of Jerobo'am began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah; and he reigned over Israel two years.
    26: He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin which he made Israel to sin.
    27: Ba'asha the son of Ahi'jah, of the house of Is'sachar, conspired against him; and Ba'asha struck him down at Gib'bethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gib'bethon.
    28: So Ba'asha killed him in the third year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.
    29: And as soon as he was king, he killed all the house of Jerobo'am; he left to the house of Jerobo'am not one that breathed, until he had destroyed it, according to the word of the LORD which he spoke by his servant Ahi'jah the Shi'lonite;
    30: it was for the sins of Jerobo'am which he sinned and which he made Israel to sin, and because of the anger to which he provoked the LORD, the God of Israel.
    31: Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
    32: And there was war between Asa and Ba'asha king of Israel all their days.
    33: In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Ba'asha the son of Ahi'jah began to reign over all Israel at Tirzah, and reigned twenty-four years.
    34: He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of Jerobo'am and in his sin which he made Israel to sin.

  Chapter 16.

    1: And the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hana'ni against Ba'asha, saying,
    2: "Since I exalted you out of the dust and made you leader over my people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jerobo'am, and have made my people Israel to sin, provoking me to anger with their sins,
    3: behold, I will utterly sweep away Ba'asha and his house, and I will make your house like the house of Jerobo'am the son of Nebat.
    4: Any one belonging to Ba'asha who dies in the city the dogs shall eat; and any one of his who dies in the field the birds of the air shall eat."
    5: Now the rest of the acts of Ba'asha, and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
    6: And Ba'asha slept with his fathers, and was buried at Tirzah; and Elah his son reigned in his stead.
    7: Moreover the word of the LORD came by the prophet Jehu the son of Hana'ni against Ba'asha and his house, both because of all the evil that he did in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jerobo'am, and also because he destroyed it.
    8: In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Ba'asha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, and reigned two years.
    9: But his servant Zimri, commander of half his chariots, conspired against him. When he was at Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah,
    10: Zimri came in and struck him down and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.
    11: When he began to reign, as soon as he had seated himself on his throne, he killed all the house of Ba'asha; he did not leave him a single male of his kinsmen or his friends.
    12: Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Ba'asha, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke against Ba'asha by Jehu the prophet,
    13: for all the sins of Ba'asha and the sins of Elah his son which they sinned, and which they made Israel to sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their idols.
    14: Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
    15: In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. Now the troops were encamped against Gib'bethon, which belonged to the Philistines,
    16: and the troops who were encamped heard it said, "Zimri has conspired, and he has killed the king"; therefore all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
    17: So Omri went up from Gib'bethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
    18: And when Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the citadel of the king's house, and burned the king's house over him with fire, and died,
    19: because of his sins which he committed, doing evil in the sight of the LORD, walking in the way of Jerobo'am, and for his sin which he committed, making Israel to sin.
    20: Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and the conspiracy which he made, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
    21: Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts; half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri.
    22: But the people who followed Omri overcame the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath; so Tibni died, and Omri became king.
    23: In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, and reigned for twelve years; six years he reigned in Tirzah.
    24: He bought the hill of Sama'ria from Shemer for two talents of silver; and he fortified the hill, and called the name of the city which he built, Sama'ria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill.
    25: Omri did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and did more evil than all who were before him.
    26: For he walked in all the way of Jerobo'am the son of Nebat, and in the sins which he made Israel to sin, provoking the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger by their idols.
    27: Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and the might that he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
    28: And Omri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Sama'ria; and Ahab his son reigned in his stead.
    29: In the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel, and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Sama'ria twenty-two years.
    30: And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all that were before him.
    31: And as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jerobo'am the son of Nebat, he took for wife Jez'ebel the daughter of Ethba'al king of the Sido'nians, and went and served Ba'al, and worshiped him.
    32: He erected an altar for Ba'al in the house of Ba'al, which he built in Sama'ria.
    33: And Ahab made an Ashe'rah. Ahab did more to provoke the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him.
    34: In his days Hi'el of Bethel built Jericho; he laid its foundation at the cost of Abi'ram his first-born, and set up its gates at the cost of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by Joshua the son of Nun.

End of day 79.