Day 40:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah over against Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Haze'roth, and Di'-zahab.
    2: It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Se'ir to Ka'desh-bar'nea.
    3: And in the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the people of Israel according to all that the LORD had given him in commandment to them,
    4: after he had defeated Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who lived in Ash'taroth and in Ed're-i.
    5: Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses undertook to explain this law, saying,
    6: "The LORD our God said to us in Horeb, `You have stayed long enough at this mountain;
    7: turn and take your journey, and go to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all their neighbors in the Arabah, in the hill country and in the lowland, and in the Negeb, and by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphra'tes.
    8: Behold, I have set the land before you; go in and take possession of the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them and to their descendants after them.'
    9: "At that time I said to you, `I am not able alone to bear you;
    10: the LORD your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude.
    11: May the LORD, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are, and bless you, as he has promised you!
    12: How can I bear alone the weight and burden of you and your strife?
    13: Choose wise, understanding, and experienced men, according to your tribes, and I will appoint them as your heads.'
    14: And you answered me, `The thing that you have spoken is good for us to do.'
    15: So I took the heads of your tribes, wise and experienced men, and set them as heads over you, commanders of thousands, commanders of hundreds, commanders of fifties, commanders of tens, and officers, throughout your tribes.
    16: And I charged your judges at that time, `Hear the cases between your brethren, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the alien that is with him.
    17: You shall not be partial in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike; you shall not be afraid of the face of man, for the judgment is God's; and the case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.'
    18: And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do.
    19: "And we set out from Horeb, and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw, on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us; and we came to Ka'desh-bar'nea.
    20: And I said to you, `You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the LORD our God gives us.
    21: Behold, the LORD your God has set the land before you; go up, take possession, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has told you; do not fear or be dismayed.'
    22: Then all of you came near me, and said, `Let us send men before us, that they may explore the land for us, and bring us word again of the way by which we must go up and the cities into which we shall come.'
    23: The thing seemed good to me, and I took twelve men of you, one man for each tribe;
    24: and they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the Valley of Eshcol and spied it out.
    25: And they took in their hands some of the fruit of the land and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said, `It is a good land which the LORD our God gives us.'
    26: "Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the LORD your God;
    27: and you murmured in your tents, and said, `Because the LORD hated us he has brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to give us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
    28: Whither are we going up? Our brethren have made our hearts melt, saying, "The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are great and fortified up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there."'
    29: Then I said to you, `Do not be in dread or afraid of them.
    30: The LORD your God who goes before you will himself fight for you, just as he did for you in Egypt before your eyes,
    31: and in the wilderness, where you have seen how the LORD your God bore you, as a man bears his son, in all the way that you went until you came to this place.'
    32: Yet in spite of this word you did not believe the LORD your God,
    33: who went before you in the way to seek you out a place to pitch your tents, in fire by night, to show you by what way you should go, and in the cloud by day.
    34: "And the LORD heard your words, and was angered, and he swore,
    35: `Not one of these men of this evil generation shall see the good land which I swore to give to your fathers,
    36: except Caleb the son of Jephun'neh; he shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land upon which he has trodden, because he has wholly followed the LORD!'
    37: The LORD was angry with me also on your account, and said, `You also shall not go in there;
    38: Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter; encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
    39: Moreover your little ones, who you said would become a prey, and your children, who this day have no knowledge of good or evil, shall go in there, and to them I will give it, and they shall possess it.
    40: But as for you, turn, and journey into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea.'
    41: "Then you answered me, `We have sinned against the LORD; we will go up and fight, just as the LORD our God commanded us.' And every man of you girded on his weapons of war, and thought it easy to go up into the hill country.
    42: And the LORD said to me, `Say to them, Do not go up or fight, for I am not in the midst of you; lest you be defeated before your enemies.'
    43: So I spoke to you, and you would not hearken; but you rebelled against the command of the LORD, and were presumptuous and went up into the hill country.
    44: Then the Amorites who lived in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do and beat you down in Se'ir as far as Hormah.
    45: And you returned and wept before the LORD; but the LORD did not hearken to your voice or give ear to you.
    46: So you remained at Kadesh many days, the days that you remained there.

  Chapter 2.

    1: "Then we turned, and journeyed into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea, as the LORD told me; and for many days we went about Mount Se'ir.
    2: Then the LORD said to me,
    3: `You have been going about this mountain country long enough; turn northward.
    4: And command the people, You are about to pass through the territory of your brethren the sons of Esau, who live in Se'ir; and they will be afraid of you. So take good heed;
    5: do not contend with them; for I will not give you any of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Se'ir to Esau as a possession.
    6: You shall purchase food from them for money, that you may eat; and you shall also buy water of them for money, that you may drink.
    7: For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands; he knows your going through this great wilderness; these forty years the LORD your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing.'
    8: So we went on, away from our brethren the sons of Esau who live in Se'ir, away from the Arabah road from Elath and E'zion-ge'ber. "And we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness of Moab.
    9: And the LORD said to me, `Do not harass Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given Ar to the sons of Lot for a possession.'
    10: (The Emim formerly lived there, a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim;
    11: like the Anakim they are also known as Reph'aim, but the Moabites call them Emim.
    12: The Horites also lived in Se'ir formerly, but the sons of Esau dispossessed them, and destroyed them from before them, and settled in their stead; as Israel did to the land of their possession, which the LORD gave to them.)
    13: `Now rise up, and go over the brook Zered.' So we went over the brook Zered.
    14: And the time from our leaving Ka'desh-bar'nea until we crossed the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until the entire generation, that is, the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the LORD had sworn to them.
    15: For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from the camp, until they had perished.
    16: "So when all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people,
    17: the LORD said to me,
    18: `This day you are to pass over the boundary of Moab at Ar;
    19: and when you approach the frontier of the sons of Ammon, do not harass them or contend with them, for I will not give you any of the land of the sons of Ammon as a possession, because I have given it to the sons of Lot for a possession.'
    20: (That also is known as a land of Reph'aim; Reph'aim formerly lived there, but the Ammonites call them Zamzum'mim,
    21: a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim; but the LORD destroyed them before them; and they dispossessed them, and settled in their stead;
    22: as he did for the sons of Esau, who live in Se'ir, when he destroyed the Horites before them, and they dispossessed them, and settled in their stead even to this day.
    23: As for the Avvim, who lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caph'torim, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and settled in their stead.)
    24: `Rise up, take your journey, and go over the valley of the Arnon; behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land; begin to take possession, and contend with him in battle.
    25: This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the peoples that are under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you.'
    26: "So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Ked'emoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying,
    27: `Let me pass through your land; I will go only by the road, I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the left.
    28: You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat, and give me water for money, that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot,
    29: as the sons of Esau who live in Se'ir and the Moabites who live in Ar did for me, until I go over the Jordan into the land which the LORD our God gives to us.'
    30: But Sihon the king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him; for the LORD your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might give him into your hand, as at this day.
    31: And the LORD said to me, `Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you; begin to take possession, that you may occupy his land.'
    32: Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
    33: And the LORD our God gave him over to us; and we defeated him and his sons and all his people.
    34: And we captured all his cities at that time and utterly destroyed every city, men, women, and children; we left none remaining;
    35: only the cattle we took as spoil for ourselves, with the booty of the cities which we captured.
    36: From Aro'er, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and from the city that is in the valley, as far as Gilead, there was not a city too high for us; the LORD our God gave all into our hands.
    37: Only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near, that is, to all the banks of the river Jabbok and the cities of the hill country, and wherever the LORD our God forbade us.

  Chapter 3.

    1: "Then we turned and went up the way to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Ed're-i.
    2: But the LORD said to me, `Do not fear him; for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.'
    3: So the LORD our God gave into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people; and we smote him until no survivor was left to him.
    4: And we took all his cities at that time -- there was not a city which we did not take from them -- sixty cities, the whole region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
    5: All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides very many unwalled villages.
    6: And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon the king of Heshbon, destroying every city, men, women, and children.
    7: But all the cattle and the spoil of the cities we took as our booty.
    8: So we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon
    9: (the Sido'nians call Hermon Si'rion, while the Amorites call it Senir),
    10: all the cities of the tableland and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Sal'ecah and Ed're-i, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
    11: (For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the remnant of the Reph'aim; behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbah of the Ammonites? Nine cubits was its length, and four cubits its breadth, according to the common cubit.)
    12: "When we took possession of this land at that time, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites the territory beginning at Aro'er, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead with its cities;
    13: the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, that is, all the region of Argob, I gave to the half-tribe of Manas'seh. (The whole of that Bashan is called the land of Reph'aim.
    14: Ja'ir the Manas'site took all the region of Argob, that is, Bashan, as far as the border of the Gesh'urites and the Ma-ac'athites, and called the villages after his own name, Hav'voth-ja'ir, as it is to this day.)
    15: To Machir I gave Gilead,
    16: and to the Reubenites and the Gadites I gave the territory from Gilead as far as the valley of the Arnon, with the middle of the valley as a boundary, as far over as the river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites;
    17: the Arabah also, with the Jordan as the boundary, from Chin'nereth as far as the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah on the east.
    18: "And I commanded you at that time, saying, `The LORD your God has given you this land to possess; all your men of valor shall pass over armed before your brethren the people of Israel.
    19: But your wives, your little ones, and your cattle (I know that you have many cattle) shall remain in the cities which I have given you,
    20: until the LORD gives rest to your brethren, as to you, and they also occupy the land which the LORD your God gives them beyond the Jordan; then you shall return every man to his possession which I have given you.'
    21: And I commanded Joshua at that time, `Your eyes have seen all that the LORD your God has done to these two kings; so will the LORD do to all the kingdoms into which you are going over.
    22: You shall not fear them; for it is the LORD your God who fights for you.'
    23: "And I besought the LORD at that time, saying,
    24: `O Lord GOD, thou hast only begun to show thy servant thy greatness and thy mighty hand; for what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do such works and mighty acts as thine?
    25: Let me go over, I pray, and see the good land beyond the Jordan, that goodly hill country, and Lebanon.'
    26: But the LORD was angry with me on your account, and would not hearken to me; and the LORD said to me, `Let it suffice you; speak no more to me of this matter.
    27: Go up to the top of Pisgah, and lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and eastward, and behold it with your eyes; for you shall not go over this Jordan.
    28: But charge Joshua, and encourage and strengthen him; for he shall go over at the head of this people, and he shall put them in possession of the land which you shall see.'
    29: So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-pe'or.

  Chapter 4.

    1: "And now, O Israel, give heed to the statutes and the ordinances which I teach you, and do them; that you may live, and go in and take possession of the land which the LORD, the God of your fathers, gives you.
    2: You shall not add to the word which I command you, nor take from it; that you may keep the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you.
    3: Your eyes have seen what the LORD did at Ba'al-pe'or; for the LORD your God destroyed from among you all the men who followed the Ba'al of Pe'or;
    4: but you who held fast to the LORD your God are all alive this day.
    5: Behold, I have taught you statutes and ordinances, as the LORD my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land which you are entering to take possession of it.
    6: Keep them and do them; for that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, `Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.'
    7: For what great nation is there that has a god so near to it as the LORD our God is to us, whenever we call upon him?
    8: And what great nation is there, that has statutes and ordinances so righteous as all this law which I set before you this day?
    9: "Only take heed, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life; make them known to your children and your children's children --
    10: how on the day that you stood before the LORD your God at Horeb, the LORD said to me, `Gather the people to me, that I may let them hear my words, so that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live upon the earth, and that they may teach their children so.'
    11: And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, while the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven, wrapped in darkness, cloud, and gloom.
    12: Then the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire; you heard the sound of words, but saw no form; there was only a voice.
    13: And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the ten commandments; and he wrote them upon two tables of stone.
    14: And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and ordinances, that you might do them in the land which you are going over to possess.
    15: "Therefore take good heed to yourselves. Since you saw no form on the day that the LORD spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire,
    16: beware lest you act corruptly by making a graven image for yourselves, in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,
    17: the likeness of any beast that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air,
    18: the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth.
    19: And beware lest you lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, you be drawn away and worship them and serve them, things which the LORD your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven.
    20: But the LORD has taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be a people of his own possession, as at this day.
    21: Furthermore the LORD was angry with me on your account, and he swore that I should not cross the Jordan, and that I should not enter the good land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance.
    22: For I must die in this land, I must not go over the Jordan; but you shall go over and take possession of that good land.
    23: Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which he made with you, and make a graven image in the form of anything which the LORD your God has forbidden you.
    24: For the LORD your God is a devouring fire, a jealous God.
    25: "When you beget children and children's children, and have grown old in the land, if you act corruptly by making a graven image in the form of anything, and by doing what is evil in the sight of the LORD your God, so as to provoke him to anger,
    26: I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you will soon utterly perish from the land which you are going over the Jordan to possess; you will not live long upon it, but will be utterly destroyed.
    27: And the LORD will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the nations where the LORD will drive you.
    28: And there you will serve gods of wood and stone, the work of men's hands, that neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
    29: But from there you will seek the LORD your God, and you will find him, if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
    30: When you are in tribulation, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, you will return to the LORD your God and obey his voice,
    31: for the LORD your God is a merciful God; he will not fail you or destroy you or forget the covenant with your fathers which he swore to them.
    32: "For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, whether such a great thing as this has ever happened or was ever heard of.
    33: Did any people ever hear the voice of a god speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and still live?
    34: Or has any god ever attempted to go and take a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, and by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, according to all that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
    35: To you it was shown, that you might know that the LORD is God; there is no other besides him.
    36: Out of heaven he let you hear his voice, that he might discipline you; and on earth he let you see his great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
    37: And because he loved your fathers and chose their descendants after them, and brought you out of Egypt with his own presence, by his great power,
    38: driving out before you nations greater and mightier than yourselves, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance, as at this day;
    39: know therefore this day, and lay it to your heart, that the LORD is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is no other.
    40: Therefore you shall keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you this day, that it may go well with you, and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which the LORD your God gives you for ever."
    41: Then Moses set apart three cities in the east beyond the Jordan,
    42: that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his neighbor unintentionally, without being at enmity with him in time past, and that by fleeing to one of these cities he might save his life:
    43: Bezer in the wilderness on the tableland for the Reubenites, and Ramoth in Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan for the Manas'sites.
    44: This is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel;
    45: these are the testimonies, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Moses spoke to the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt,
    46: beyond the Jordan in the valley opposite Beth-pe'or, in the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel defeated when they came out of Egypt.
    47: And they took possession of his land and the land of Og the king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who lived to the east beyond the Jordan;
    48: from Aro'er, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, as far as Mount Si'rion (that is, Hermon),
    49: together with all the Arabah on the east side of the Jordan as far as the Sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.

End of day 40.