Day 165:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['85', '86', '87', '88']:

  Chapter 85.

    1: LORD, thou wast favorable to thy land; thou didst restore the fortunes of Jacob.
    2: Thou didst forgive the iniquity of thy people; thou didst pardon all their sin. [Selah]
    3: Thou didst withdraw all thy wrath; thou didst turn from thy hot anger.
    4: Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away thy indignation toward us!
    5: Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? Wilt thou prolong thy anger to all generations?
    6: Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee?
    7: Show us thy steadfast love, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation.
    8: Let me hear what God the LORD will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints, to those who turn to him in their hearts.
    9: Surely his salvation is at hand for those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
    10: Steadfast love and faithfulness will meet; righteousness and peace will kiss each other.
    11: Faithfulness will spring up from the ground, and righteousness will look down from the sky.
    12: Yea, the LORD will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase.
    13: Righteousness will go before him, and make his footsteps a way.

  Chapter 86.

    1: Incline thy ear, O LORD, and answer me, for I am poor and needy.
    2: Preserve my life, for I am godly; save thy servant who trusts in thee. Thou art my God;
    3: be gracious to me, O Lord, for to thee do I cry all the day.
    4: Gladden the soul of thy servant, for to thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
    5: For thou, O Lord, art good and forgiving, abounding in steadfast love to all who call on thee.
    6: Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; hearken to my cry of supplication.
    7: In the day of my trouble I call on thee, for thou dost answer me.
    8: There is none like thee among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like thine.
    9: All the nations thou hast made shall come and bow down before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy name.
    10: For thou art great and doest wondrous things, thou alone art God.
    11: Teach me thy way, O LORD, that I may walk in thy truth; unite my heart to fear thy name.
    12: I give thanks to thee, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify thy name for ever.
    13: For great is thy steadfast love toward me; thou hast delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.
    14: O God, insolent men have risen up against me; a band of ruthless men seek my life, and they do not set thee before them.
    15: But thou, O Lord, art a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.
    16: Turn to me and take pity on me; give thy strength to thy servant, and save the son of thy handmaid.
    17: Show me a sign of thy favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame because thou, LORD, hast helped me and comforted me.

  Chapter 87.

    1: On the holy mount stands the city he founded;
    2: the LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob.
    3: Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God. [Selah]
    4: Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon; behold, Philistia and Tyre, with Ethiopia -- "This one was born there," they say.
    5: And of Zion it shall be said, "This one and that one were born in her"; for the Most High himself will establish her.
    6: The LORD records as he registers the peoples, "This one was born there." [Selah]
    7: Singers and dancers alike say, "All my springs are in you."

  Chapter 88.

    1: O LORD, my God, I call for help by day; I cry out in the night before thee.
    2: Let my prayer come before thee, incline thy ear to my cry!
    3: For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol.
    4: I am reckoned among those who go down to the Pit; I am a man who has no strength,
    5: like one forsaken among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom thou dost remember no more, for they are cut off from thy hand.
    6: Thou hast put me in the depths of the Pit, in the regions dark and deep.
    7: Thy wrath lies heavy upon me, and thou dost overwhelm me with all thy waves. [Selah]
    8: Thou hast caused my companions to shun me; thou hast made me a thing of horror to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape;
    9: my eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon thee, O LORD; I spread out my hands to thee.
    10: Dost thou work wonders for the dead? Do the shades rise up to praise thee? [Selah]
    11: Is thy steadfast love declared in the grave, or thy faithfulness in Abaddon?
    12: Are thy wonders known in the darkness, or thy saving help in the land of forgetfulness?
    13: But I, O LORD, cry to thee; in the morning my prayer comes before thee.
    14: O LORD, why dost thou cast me off? Why dost thou hide thy face from me?
    15: Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer thy terrors; I am helpless.
    16: Thy wrath has swept over me; thy dread assaults destroy me.
    17: They surround me like a flood all day long; they close in upon me together.
    18: Thou hast caused lover and friend to shun me; my companions are in darkness.

End of day 165.