Day 90:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel (for he was the first-born; but because he polluted his father's couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so that he is not enrolled in the genealogy according to the birthright;
    2: though Judah became strong among his brothers and a prince was from him, yet the birthright belonged to Joseph),
    3: the sons of Reuben, the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
    4: The sons of Jo'el: Shemai'ah his son, Gog his son, Shim'e-i his son,
    5: Micah his son, Re-ai'ah his son, Ba'al his son,
    6: Be-er'ah his son, whom Til'gath-pilne'ser king of Assyria carried away into exile; he was a chieftain of the Reubenites.
    7: And his kinsmen by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief, Je-i'el, and Zechari'ah,
    8: and Bela the son of Azaz, son of Shema, son of Jo'el, who dwelt in Aro'er, as far as Nebo and Ba'al-me'on.
    9: He also dwelt to the east as far as the entrance of the desert this side of the Euphra'tes, because their cattle had multiplied in the land of Gilead.
    10: And in the days of Saul they made war on the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the region east of Gilead.
    11: The sons of Gad dwelt over against them in the land of Bashan as far as Sal'ecah:
    12: Jo'el the chief, Shapham the second, Ja'nai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
    13: And their kinsmen according to their fathers' houses: Michael, Meshul'lam, Sheba, Jo'rai, Jacan, Zi'a, and Eber, seven.
    14: These were the sons of Ab'ihail the son of Huri, son of Jaro'ah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshish'ai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz;
    15: Ahi the son of Ab'di-el, son of Guni, was chief in their fathers' houses;
    16: and they dwelt in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the pasture lands of Sharon to their limits.
    17: All of these were enrolled by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jerobo'am king of Israel.
    18: The Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manas'seh had valiant men, who carried shield and sword, and drew the bow, expert in war, forty-four thousand seven hundred and sixty, ready for service.
    19: They made war upon the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab;
    20: and when they received help against them, the Hagrites and all who were with them were given into their hands, for they cried to God in the battle, and he granted their entreaty because they trusted in him.
    21: They carried off their livestock: fifty thousand of their camels, two hundred and fifty thousand sheep, two thousand asses, and a hundred thousand men alive.
    22: For many fell slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their place until the exile.
    23: The members of the half-tribe of Manas'seh dwelt in the land; they were very numerous from Bashan to Ba'al-her'mon, Senir, and Mount Hermon.
    24: These were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher, Ishi, Eli'el, Az'ri-el, Jeremiah, Hodavi'ah, and Jah'di-el, mighty warriors, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.
    25: But they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them.
    26: So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, the spirit of Til'gath-pilne'ser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, namely, the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manas'seh, and brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and the river Gozan, to this day.

  Chapter 6.

    1: The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merar'i.
    2: The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uz'ziel.
    3: The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abi'hu, Elea'zar, and Ith'amar.
    4: Elea'zar was the father of Phin'ehas, Phin'ehas of Abishu'a,
    5: Abishu'a of Bukki, Bukki of Uzzi,
    6: Uzzi of Zerahi'ah, Zerahi'ah of Merai'oth,
    7: Merai'oth of Amari'ah, Amari'ah of Ahi'tub,
    8: Ahi'tub of Zadok, Zadok of Ahim'a-az,
    9: Ahim'a-az of Azari'ah, Azari'ah of Joha'nan,
    10: and Joha'nan of Azari'ah (it was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem).
    11: Azari'ah was the father of Amari'ah, Amari'ah of Ahi'tub,
    12: Ahi'tub of Zadok, Zadok of Shallum,
    13: Shallum of Hilki'ah, Hilki'ah of Azari'ah,
    14: Azari'ah of Serai'ah, Serai'ah of Jehoz'adak;
    15: and Jehoz'adak went into exile when the LORD sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnez'zar.
    16: The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merar'i.
    17: And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shim'e-i.
    18: The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uz'ziel.
    19: The sons of Merar'i: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers.
    20: Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
    21: Jo'ah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Je-ath'erai his son.
    22: The sons of Kohath: Ammin'adab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
    23: Elka'nah his son, Ebi'asaph his son, Assir his son,
    24: Tahath his son, Uri'el his son, Uzzi'ah his son, and Sha'ul his son.
    25: The sons of Elka'nah: Ama'sai and Ahi'moth,
    26: Elka'nah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
    27: Eli'ab his son, Jero'ham his son, Elka'nah his son.
    28: The sons of Samuel: Jo'el his first-born, the second Abi'jah.
    29: The sons of Merar'i: Mahli, Libni his son, Shim'e-i his son, Uzzah his son,
    30: Shim'e-a his son, Haggi'ah his son, and Asai'ah his son.
    31: These are the men whom David put in charge of the service of song in the house of the LORD, after the ark rested there.
    32: They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem; and they performed their service in due order.
    33: These are the men who served and their sons. Of the sons of the Ko'hathites: Heman the singer the son of Jo'el, son of Samuel,
    34: son of Elka'nah, son of Jero'ham, son of Eli'el, son of To'ah,
    35: son of Zuph, son of Elka'nah, son of Mahath, son of Ama'sai,
    36: son of Elka'nah, son of Jo'el, son of Azari'ah, son of Zephani'ah,
    37: son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebi'asaph, son of Korah,
    38: son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;
    39: and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, namely, Asaph the son of Berechi'ah, son of Shim'e-a,
    40: son of Michael, son of Ba-ase'iah, son of Malchi'jah,
    41: son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adai'ah,
    42: son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shim'e-i,
    43: son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
    44: On the left hand were their brethren the sons of Merar'i: Ethan the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
    45: son of Hashabi'ah, son of Amazi'ah, son of Hilki'ah,
    46: son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
    47: son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merar'i, son of Levi;
    48: and their brethren the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
    49: But Aaron and his sons made offerings upon the altar of burnt offering and upon the altar of incense for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
    50: These are the sons of Aaron: Elea'zar his son, Phin'ehas his son, Abishu'a his son,
    51: Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahi'ah his son,
    52: Merai'oth his son, Amari'ah his son, Ahi'tub his son,
    53: Zadok his son, Ahim'a-az his son.
    54: These are their dwelling places according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of Aaron of the families of Ko'hathites, for theirs was the lot,
    55: to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasture lands,
    56: but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephun'neh.
    57: To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemo'a with its pasture lands,
    58: Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands,
    59: Ashan with its pasture lands, and Beth-she'mesh with its pasture lands;
    60: and from the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its pasture lands, Al'emeth with its pasture lands, and An'athoth with its pasture lands. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen.
    61: To the rest of the Ko'hathites were given by lot out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manas'seh, ten cities.
    62: To the Gershomites according to their families were allotted thirteen cities out of the tribes of Is'sachar, Asher, Naph'tali, and Manas'seh in Bashan.
    63: To the Merar'ites according to their families were allotted twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zeb'ulun.
    64: So the people of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasture lands.
    65: They also gave them by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these cities which are mentioned by name.
    66: And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory out of the tribe of E'phraim.
    67: They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasture lands in the hill country of E'phraim, Gezer with its pasture lands,
    68: Jok'me-am with its pasture lands, Beth-hor'on with its pasture lands,
    69: Ai'jalon with its pasture lands, Gath-rim'mon with its pasture lands,
    70: and out of the half-tribe of Manas'seh, Aner with its pasture lands, and Bil'e-am with its pasture lands, for the rest of the families of the Ko'hathites.
    71: To the Gershomites were given out of the half-tribe of Manas'seh: Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ash'taroth with its pasture lands;
    72: and out of the tribe of Is'sachar: Kedesh with its pasture lands, Dab'erath with its pasture lands,
    73: Ramoth with its pasture lands, and Anem with its pasture lands;
    74: out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands,
    75: Hukok with its pasture lands, and Rehob with its pasture lands;
    76: and out of the tribe of Naph'tali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Ham'mon with its pasture lands, and Kiriatha'im with its pasture lands.
    77: To the rest of the Merar'ites were allotted out of the tribe of Zeb'ulun: Rim'mono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands,
    78: and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the steppe with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands,
    79: Ked'emoth with its pasture lands, and Meph'a-ath with its pasture lands;
    80: and out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahana'im with its pasture lands,
    81: Heshbon with its pasture lands, and Jazer with its pasture lands.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The sons of Is'sachar: Tola, Pu'ah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
    2: The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephai'ah, Je'ri-el, Jah'mai, Ibsam, and Shem'uel, heads of their fathers' houses, namely of Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David being twenty-two thousand six hundred.
    3: The sons of Uzzi: Izrahi'ah. And the sons of Izrahi'ah: Michael, Obadi'ah, Jo'el, and Isshi'ah, five, all of them chief men;
    4: and along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were units of the army for war, thirty-six thousand, for they had many wives and sons.
    5: Their kinsmen belonging to all the families of Is'sachar were in all eighty-seven thousand mighty warriors, enrolled by genealogy.
    6: The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jedi'a-el, three.
    7: The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uz'ziel, Jer'imoth, and Iri, five, heads of fathers' houses, mighty warriors; and their enrollment by genealogies was twenty-two thousand and thirty-four.
    8: The sons of Becher: Zemi'rah, Jo'ash, Elie'zer, Eli-o-e'nai, Omri, Jer'emoth, Abi'jah, An'athoth, and Al'emeth. All these were the sons of Becher;
    9: and their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, was twenty thousand two hundred.
    10: The sons of Jedi'a-el: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Je'ush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chena'anah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahish'ahar.
    11: All these were the sons of Jedi'a-el according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, seventeen thousand and two hundred, ready for service in war.
    12: And Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, Hushim the sons of Aher.
    13: The sons of Naph'tali: Jah'zi-el, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the offspring of Bilhah.
    14: The sons of Manas'seh: As'ri-el, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead.
    15: And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. The name of his sister was Ma'acah. And the name of the second was Zeloph'ehad; and Zeloph'ehad had daughters.
    16: And Ma'acah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
    17: The sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manas'seh.
    18: And his sister Hammo'lecheth bore Ishhod, Abi-e'zer, and Mahlah.
    19: The sons of Shemi'da were Ahi'an, Shechem, Likhi, and Ani'am.
    20: The sons of E'phraim: Shuthe'lah, and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Ele-a'dah his son, Tahath his son,
    21: Zabad his son, Shuthe'lah his son, and Ezer and E'le-ad, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land slew, because they came down to raid their cattle.
    22: And E'phraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
    23: And E'phraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son; and he called his name Beri'ah, because evil had befallen his house.
    24: His daughter was She'erah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-hor'on, and Uz'zen-she'erah.
    25: Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son,
    26: Ladan his son, Ammi'hud his son, Eli'shama his son,
    27: Nun his son, Joshua his son.
    28: Their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and eastward Na'aran, and westward Gezer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, and Ayyah and its towns;
    29: also along the borders of the Manas'sites, Beth-she'an and its towns, Ta'anach and its towns, Megid'do and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these dwelt the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.
    30: The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beri'ah, and their sister Serah.
    31: The sons of Beri'ah: Heber and Mal'chi-el, who was the father of Bir'zaith.
    32: Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shu'a.
    33: The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
    34: The sons of Shemer his brother: Rohgah, Jehub'bah, and Aram.
    35: The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.
    36: The sons of Zophah: Su'ah, Har'nepher, Shu'al, Beri, Imrah,
    37: Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Be-e'ra.
    38: The sons of Jether: Jephun'neh, Pispa, and Ara.
    39: The sons of Ulla: Arah, Han'niel, and Rizi'a.
    40: All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers' houses, approved, mighty warriors, chief of the princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies, for service in war, was twenty-six thousand men.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Benjamin was the father of Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, Ahar'ah the third,
    2: Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
    3: And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abi'hud,
    4: Abishu'a, Na'aman, Aho'ah,
    5: Gera, Shephu'phan, and Huram.
    6: These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to Mana'hath):
    7: Na'aman, Ahi'jah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who was the father of Uzza and Ahi'hud.
    8: And Shahara'im had sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Ba'ara his wives.
    9: He had sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zib'i-a, Mesha, Malcam,
    10: Je'uz, Sachi'a, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
    11: He also had sons by Hushim: Abi'tub and Elpa'al.
    12: The sons of Elpa'al: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns,
    13: and Beri'ah and Shema (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Ai'jalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath);
    14: and Ahi'o, Shashak, and Jer'emoth.
    15: Zebadi'ah, Arad, Eder,
    16: Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beri'ah.
    17: Zebadi'ah, Meshul'lam, Hizki, Heber,
    18: Ish'merai, Izli'ah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpa'al.
    19: Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
    20: Eli-e'nai, Zil'lethai, Eli'el,
    21: Adai'ah, Berai'ah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shim'e-i.
    22: Ishpan, Eber, Eli'el,
    23: Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
    24: Hanani'ah, Elam, Anthothi'jah,
    25: Iphdei'ah, and Penu'el were the sons of Shashak.
    26: Sham'sherai, Shehari'ah, Athali'ah,
    27: Ja-areshi'ah, Eli'jah, and Zichri were the sons of Jero'ham.
    28: These were the heads of fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men. These dwelt in Jerusalem.
    29: Je-i'el the father of Gibeon dwelt in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Ma'acah.
    30: His first-born son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Ba'al, Nadab,
    31: Gedor, Ahi'o, Zecher,
    32: and Mikloth (he was the father of Shim'e-ah). Now these also dwelt opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
    33: Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Mal'chishu'a, Abin'adab, and Esh-ba'al;
    34: and the son of Jonathan was Mer'ib-ba'al; and Mer'ib-ba'al was the father of Micah.
    35: The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tare'a, and Ahaz.
    36: Ahaz was the father of Jeho'addah; and Jeho'addah was the father of Al'emeth, Az'maveth, and Zimri; Zimri was the father of Moza.
    37: Moza was the father of Bin'e-a; Raphah was his son, Ele-a'sah his son, Azel his son.
    38: Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azri'kam, Bo'cheru, Ish'mael, She-ari'ah, Obadi'ah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
    39: The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his first-born, Je'ush the second, and Eliph'elet the third.
    40: The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons, one hundred and fifty. All these were Benjaminites.

End of day 90.