Day 358:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who is seated upon many waters,
    2: with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and with the wine of whose fornication the dwellers on earth have become drunk."
    3: And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast which was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns.
    4: The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and bedecked with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her fornication;
    5: and on her forehead was written a name of mystery: "Babylon the great, mother of harlots and of earth's abominations."
    6: And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints and the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her I marveled greatly.
    7: But the angel said to me, "Why marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her.
    8: The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is to ascend from the bottomless pit and go to perdition; and the dwellers on earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will marvel to behold the beast, because it was and is not and is to come.
    9: This calls for a mind with wisdom: the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated;
    10: they are also seven kings, five of whom have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must remain only a little while.
    11: As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to perdition.
    12: And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received royal power, but they are to receive authority as kings for one hour, together with the beast.
    13: These are of one mind and give over their power and authority to the beast;
    14: they will make war on the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful."
    15: And he said to me, "The waters that you saw, where the harlot is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.
    16: And the ten horns that you saw, they and the beast will hate the harlot; they will make her desolate and naked, and devour her flesh and burn her up with fire,
    17: for God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and giving over their royal power to the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.
    18: And the woman that you saw is the great city which has dominion over the kings of the earth."

  Chapter 18.

    1: After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority; and the earth was made bright with his splendor.
    2: And he called out with a mighty voice, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great! It has become a dwelling place of demons, a haunt of every foul spirit, a haunt of every foul and hateful bird;
    3: for all nations have drunk the wine of her impure passion, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich with the wealth of her wantonness."
    4: Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues;
    5: for her sins are heaped high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.
    6: Render to her as she herself has rendered, and repay her double for her deeds; mix a double draught for her in the cup she mixed.
    7: As she glorified herself and played the wanton, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning. Since in her heart she says, `A queen I sit, I am no widow, mourning I shall never see,'
    8: so shall her plagues come in a single day, pestilence and mourning and famine, and she shall be burned with fire; for mighty is the Lord God who judges her."
    9: And the kings of the earth, who committed fornication and were wanton with her, will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning;
    10: they will stand far off, in fear of her torment, and say, "Alas! alas! thou great city, thou mighty city, Babylon! In one hour has thy judgment come."
    11: And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo any more,
    12: cargo of gold, silver, jewels and pearls, fine linen, purple, silk and scarlet, all kinds of scented wood, all articles of ivory, all articles of costly wood, bronze, iron and marble,
    13: cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls.
    14: "The fruit for which thy soul longed has gone from thee, and all thy dainties and thy splendor are lost to thee, never to be found again!"
    15: The merchants of these wares, who gained wealth from her, will stand far off, in fear of her torment, weeping and mourning aloud,
    16: "Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, bedecked with gold, with jewels, and with pearls!
    17: In one hour all this wealth has been laid waste." And all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors and all whose trade is on the sea, stood far off
    18: and cried out as they saw the smoke of her burning, "What city was like the great city?"
    19: And they threw dust on their heads, as they wept and mourned, crying out, "Alas, alas, for the great city where all who had ships at sea grew rich by her wealth! In one hour she has been laid waste.
    20: Rejoice over her, O heaven, O saints and apostles and prophets, for God has given judgment for you against her!"
    21: Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, "So shall Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence, and shall be found no more;
    22: and the sound of harpers and minstrels, of flute players and trumpeters, shall be heard in thee no more; and a craftsman of any craft shall be found in thee no more; and the sound of the millstone shall be heard in thee no more;
    23: and the light of a lamp shall shine in thee no more; and the voice of bridegroom and bride shall be heard in thee no more; for thy merchants were the great men of the earth, and all nations were deceived by thy sorcery.
    24: And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on earth."

  Chapter 19.

    1: After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, crying, "Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God,
    2: for his judgments are true and just; he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and he has avenged on her the blood of his servants."
    3: Once more they cried, "Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up for ever and ever."
    4: And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who is seated on the throne, saying, "Amen. Hallelujah!"
    5: And from the throne came a voice crying, "Praise our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, small and great."
    6: Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunderpeals, crying, "Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns.
    7: Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his Bride has made herself ready;
    8: it was granted her to be clothed with fine linen, bright and pure" -- for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints.
    9: And the angel said to me, "Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he said to me, "These are true words of God."
    10: Then I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "You must not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and your brethren who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God." For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
    11: Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse! He who sat upon it is called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
    12: His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems; and he has a name inscribed which no one knows but himself.
    13: He is clad in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God.
    14: And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, followed him on white horses.
    15: From his mouth issues a sharp sword with which to smite the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron; he will tread the wine press of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
    16: On his robe and on his thigh he has a name inscribed, King of kings and Lord of lords.
    17: Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly in midheaven, "Come, gather for the great supper of God,
    18: to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great."
    19: And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to make war against him who sits upon the horse and against his army.
    20: And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet who in its presence had worked the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur.
    21: And the rest were slain by the sword of him who sits upon the horse, the sword that issues from his mouth; and all the birds were gorged with their flesh.

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain.
    2: And he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years,
    3: and threw him into the pit, and shut it and sealed it over him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years were ended. After that he must be loosed for a little while.
    4: Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom judgment was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their testimony to Jesus and for the word of God, and who had not worshiped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life, and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
    5: The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
    6: Blessed and holy is he who shares in the first resurrection! Over such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they shall reign with him a thousand years.
    7: And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be loosed from his prison
    8: and will come out to deceive the nations which are at the four corners of the earth, that is, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
    9: And they marched up over the broad earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city; but fire came down from heaven and consumed them,
    10: and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
    11: Then I saw a great white throne and him who sat upon it; from his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them.
    12: And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Also another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, by what they had done.
    13: And the sea gave up the dead in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead in them, and all were judged by what they had done.
    14: Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire;
    15: and if any one's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.

End of day 358.