Day 162:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['73', '74', '75', '76']:

  Chapter 73.

    1: Truly God is good to the upright, to those who are pure in heart.
    2: But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had well nigh slipped.
    3: For I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
    4: For they have no pangs; their bodies are sound and sleek.
    5: They are not in trouble as other men are; they are not stricken like other men.
    6: Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment.
    7: Their eyes swell out with fatness, their hearts overflow with follies.
    8: They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression.
    9: They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth.
    10: Therefore the people turn and praise them; and find no fault in them.
    11: And they say, "How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?"
    12: Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches.
    13: All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence.
    14: For all the day long I have been stricken, and chastened every morning.
    15: If I had said, "I will speak thus," I would have been untrue to the generation of thy children.
    16: But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task,
    17: until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I perceived their end.
    18: Truly thou dost set them in slippery places; thou dost make them fall to ruin.
    19: How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors!
    20: They are like a dream when one awakes, on awaking you despise their phantoms.
    21: When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart,
    22: I was stupid and ignorant, I was like a beast toward thee.
    23: Nevertheless I am continually with thee; thou dost hold my right hand.
    24: Thou dost guide me with thy counsel, and afterward thou wilt receive me to glory.
    25: Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is nothing upon earth that I desire besides thee.
    26: My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion for ever.
    27: For lo, those who are far from thee shall perish; thou dost put an end to those who are false to thee.
    28: But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all thy works.

  Chapter 74.

    1: O God, why dost thou cast us off for ever? Why does thy anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?
    2: Remember thy congregation, which thou hast gotten of old, which thou hast redeemed to be the tribe of thy heritage! Remember Mount Zion, where thou hast dwelt.
    3: Direct thy steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary!
    4: Thy foes have roared in the midst of thy holy place; they set up their own signs for signs.
    5: At the upper entrance they hacked the wooden trellis with axes.
    6: And then all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers.
    7: They set thy sanctuary on fire; to the ground they desecrated the dwelling place of thy name.
    8: They said to themselves, "We will utterly subdue them"; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land.
    9: We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long.
    10: How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile thy name for ever?
    11: Why dost thou hold back thy hand, why dost thou keep thy right hand in thy bosom?
    12: Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
    13: Thou didst divide the sea by thy might; thou didst break the heads of the dragons on the waters.
    14: Thou didst crush the heads of Leviathan, thou didst give him as food for the creatures of the wilderness.
    15: Thou didst cleave open springs and brooks; thou didst dry up ever-flowing streams.
    16: Thine is the day, thine also the night; thou hast established the luminaries and the sun.
    17: Thou hast fixed all the bounds of the earth; thou hast made summer and winter.
    18: Remember this, O LORD, how the enemy scoffs, and an impious people reviles thy name.
    19: Do not deliver the soul of thy dove to the wild beasts; do not forget the life of thy poor for ever.
    20: Have regard for thy covenant; for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.
    21: Let not the downtrodden be put to shame; let the poor and needy praise thy name.
    22: Arise, O God, plead thy cause; remember how the impious scoff at thee all the day!
    23: Do not forget the clamor of thy foes, the uproar of thy adversaries which goes up continually!

  Chapter 75.

    1: We give thanks to thee, O God; we give thanks; we call on thy name and recount thy wondrous deeds.
    2: At the set time which I appoint I will judge with equity.
    3: When the earth totters, and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep steady its pillars. [Selah]
    4: I say to the boastful, "Do not boast," and to the wicked, "Do not lift up your horn;
    5: do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with insolent neck."
    6: For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up;
    7: but it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another.
    8: For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, with foaming wine, well mixed; and he will pour a draught from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs.
    9: But I will rejoice for ever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
    10: All the horns of the wicked he will cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.

  Chapter 76.

    1: In Judah God is known, his name is great in Israel.
    2: His abode has been established in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion.
    3: There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. [Selah]
    4: Glorious art thou, more majestic than the everlasting mountains.
    5: The stouthearted were stripped of their spoil; they sank into sleep; all the men of war were unable to use their hands.
    6: At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both rider and horse lay stunned.
    7: But thou, terrible art thou! Who can stand before thee when once thy anger is roused?
    8: From the heavens thou didst utter judgment; the earth feared and was still,
    9: when God arose to establish judgment to save all the oppressed of the earth. [Selah]
    10: Surely the wrath of men shall praise thee; the residue of wrath thou wilt gird upon thee.
    11: Make your vows to the LORD your God, and perform them; let all around him bring gifts to him who is to be feared,
    12: who cuts off the spirit of princes, who is terrible to the kings of the earth.

End of day 162.