Day 250:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel, prophesy and say to those who prophesy out of their own minds: `Hear the word of the LORD!'
    3: Thus says the Lord GOD, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
    4: Your prophets have been like foxes among ruins, O Israel.
    5: You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the LORD.
    6: They have spoken falsehood and divined a lie; they say, `Says the LORD,' when the LORD has not sent them, and yet they expect him to fulfil their word.
    7: Have you not seen a delusive vision, and uttered a lying divination, whenever you have said, `Says the LORD,' although I have not spoken?"
    8: Therefore thus says the Lord God: "Because you have uttered delusions and seen lies, therefore behold, I am against you, says the Lord GOD.
    9: My hand will be against the prophets who see delusive visions and who give lying divinations; they shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel; and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
    10: Because, yea, because they have misled my people, saying, `Peace,' when there is no peace; and because, when the people build a wall, these prophets daub it with whitewash;
    11: say to those who daub it with whitewash that it shall fall! There will be a deluge of rain, great hailstones will fall, and a stormy wind break out;
    12: and when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, `Where is the daubing with which you daubed it?'
    13: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: I will make a stormy wind break out in my wrath; and there shall be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to destroy it.
    14: And I will break down the wall that you have daubed with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation will be laid bare; when it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
    15: Thus will I spend my wrath upon the wall, and upon those who have daubed it with whitewash; and I will say to you, The wall is no more, nor those who daubed it,
    16: the prophets of Israel who prophesied concerning Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for her, when there was no peace, says the Lord GOD.
    17: "And you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, who prophesy out of their own minds; prophesy against them
    18: and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women who sew magic bands upon all wrists, and make veils for the heads of persons of every stature, in the hunt for souls! Will you hunt down souls belonging to my people, and keep other souls alive for your profit?
    19: You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, putting to death persons who should not die and keeping alive persons who should not live, by your lies to my people, who listen to lies.
    20: "Wherefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against your magic bands with which you hunt the souls, and I will tear them from your arms; and I will let the souls that you hunt go free like birds.
    21: Your veils also I will tear off, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand as prey; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
    22: Because you have disheartened the righteous falsely, although I have not disheartened him, and you have encouraged the wicked, that he should not turn from his wicked way to save his life;
    23: therefore you shall no more see delusive visions nor practice divination; I will deliver my people out of your hand. Then you will know that I am the LORD."

  Chapter 14.

    1: Then came certain of the elders of Israel to me; and sat before me.
    2: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    3: "Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts, and set the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces; should I let myself be inquired of at all by them?
    4: Therefore speak to them, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Any man of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to the prophet, I the LORD will answer him myself because of the multitude of his idols,
    5: that I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel, who are all estranged from me through their idols.
    6: "Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Repent and turn away from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your abominations.
    7: For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, who separates himself from me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to a prophet to inquire for himself of me, I the LORD will answer him myself;
    8: and I will set my face against that man, I will make him a sign and a byword and cut him off from the midst of my people; and you shall know that I am the LORD.
    9: And if the prophet be deceived and speak a word, I, the LORD, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
    10: And they shall bear their punishment -- the punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the inquirer shall be alike --
    11: that the house of Israel may go no more astray from me, nor defile themselves any more with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God, says the Lord GOD."
    12: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    13: "Son of man, when a land sins against me by acting faithlessly, and I stretch out my hand against it, and break its staff of bread and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast,
    14: even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness, says the Lord GOD.
    15: If I cause wild beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no man may pass through because of the beasts;
    16: even if these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters; they alone would be delivered, but the land would be desolate.
    17: Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Let a sword go through the land; and I cut off from it man and beast;
    18: though these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they alone would be delivered.
    19: Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath upon it with blood, to cut off from it man and beast;
    20: even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, says the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither son nor daughter; they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness.
    21: "For thus says the Lord GOD: How much more when I send upon Jerusalem my four sore acts of judgment, sword, famine, evil beasts, and pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast!
    22: Yet, if there should be left in it any survivors to lead out sons and daughters, when they come forth to you, and you see their ways and their doings, you will be consoled for the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.
    23: They will console you, when you see their ways and their doings; and you shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 15.

    1: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, how does the wood of the vine surpass any wood, the vine branch which is among the trees of the forest?
    3: Is wood taken from it to make anything? Do men take a peg from it to hang any vessel on?
    4: Lo, it is given to the fire for fuel; when the fire has consumed both ends of it, and the middle of it is charred, is it useful for anything?
    5: Behold, when it was whole, it was used for nothing; how much less, when the fire has consumed it and it is charred, can it ever be used for anything!
    6: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so will I give up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
    7: And I will set my face against them; though they escape from the fire, the fire shall yet consume them; and you will know that I am the LORD, when I set my face against them.
    8: And I will make the land desolate, because they have acted faithlessly, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 16.

    1: Again the word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations,
    3: and say, Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanites; your father was an Amorite, and your mother a Hittite.
    4: And as for your birth, on the day you were born your navel string was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor swathed with bands.
    5: No eye pitied you, to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you; but you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred, on the day that you were born.
    6: "And when I passed by you, and saw you weltering in your blood, I said to you in your blood, `Live,
    7: and grow up like a plant of the field.' And you grew up and became tall and arrived at full maidenhood; your breasts were formed, and your hair had grown; yet you were naked and bare.
    8: "When I passed by you again and looked upon you, behold, you were at the age for love; and I spread my skirt over you, and covered your nakedness: yea, I plighted my troth to you and entered into a covenant with you, says the Lord GOD, and you became mine.
    9: Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you, and anointed you with oil.
    10: I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with leather, I swathed you in fine linen and covered you with silk.
    11: And I decked you with ornaments, and put bracelets on your arms, and a chain on your neck.
    12: And I put a ring on your nose, and earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown upon your head.
    13: Thus you were decked with gold and silver; and your raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and embroidered cloth; you ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful, and came to regal estate.
    14: And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor which I had bestowed upon you, says the Lord GOD.
    15: "But you trusted in your beauty, and played the harlot because of your renown, and lavished your harlotries on any passer-by.
    16: You took some of your garments, and made for yourself gaily decked shrines, and on them played the harlot; the like has never been, nor ever shall be.
    17: You also took your fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself images of men, and with them played the harlot;
    18: and you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
    19: Also my bread which I gave you -- I fed you with fine flour and oil and honey -- you set before them for a pleasing odor, says the Lord GOD.
    20: And you took your sons and your daughters, whom you had borne to me, and these you sacrificed to them to be devoured. Were your harlotries so small a matter
    21: that you slaughtered my children and delivered them up as an offering by fire to them?
    22: And in all your abominations and your harlotries you did not remember the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare, weltering in your blood.
    23: "And after all your wickedness (woe, woe to you! says the Lord GOD),
    24: you built yourself a vaulted chamber, and made yourself a lofty place in every square;
    25: at the head of every street you built your lofty place and prostituted your beauty, offering yourself to any passer-by, and multiplying your harlotry.
    26: You also played the harlot with the Egyptians, your lustful neighbors, multiplying your harlotry, to provoke me to anger.
    27: Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you, and diminished your allotted portion, and delivered you to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior.
    28: You played the harlot also with the Assyrians, because you were insatiable; yea, you played the harlot with them, and still you were not satisfied.
    29: You multiplied your harlotry also with the trading land of Chalde'a; and even with this you were not satisfied.
    30: "How lovesick is your heart, says the Lord GOD, seeing you did all these things, the deeds of a brazen harlot;
    31: building your vaulted chamber at the head of every street, and making your lofty place in every square. Yet you were not like a harlot, because you scorned hire.
    32: Adulterous wife, who receives strangers instead of her husband!
    33: Men give gifts to all harlots; but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from every side for your harlotries.
    34: So you were different from other women in your harlotries: none solicited you to play the harlot; and you gave hire, while no hire was given to you; therefore you were different.
    35: "Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD:
    36: Thus says the Lord GOD, Because your shame was laid bare and your nakedness uncovered in your harlotries with your lovers, and because of all your idols, and because of the blood of your children that you gave to them,
    37: therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers, with whom you took pleasure, all those you loved and all those you loathed; I will gather them against you from every side, and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness.
    38: And I will judge you as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged, and bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy.
    39: And I will give you into the hand of your lovers, and they shall throw down your vaulted chamber and break down your lofty places; they shall strip you of your clothes and take your fair jewels, and leave you naked and bare.
    40: They shall bring up a host against you, and they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords.
    41: And they shall burn your houses and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women; I will make you stop playing the harlot, and you shall also give hire no more.
    42: So will I satisfy my fury on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you; I will be calm, and will no more be angry.
    43: Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have enraged me with all these things; therefore, behold, I will requite your deeds upon your head, says the Lord GOD. "Have you not committed lewdness in addition to all your abominations?
    44: Behold, every one who uses proverbs will use this proverb about you, `Like mother, like daughter.'
    45: You are the daughter of your mother, who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite.
    46: And your elder sister is Sama'ria, who lived with her daughters to the north of you; and your younger sister, who lived to the south of you, is Sodom with her daughters.
    47: Yet you were not content to walk in their ways, or do according to their abominations; within a very little time you were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
    48: As I live, says the Lord GOD, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done.
    49: Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had pride, surfeit of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy.
    50: They were haughty, and did abominable things before me; therefore I removed them, when I saw it.
    51: Sama'ria has not committed half your sins; you have committed more abominations than they, and have made your sisters appear righteous by all the abominations which you have committed.
    52: Bear your disgrace, you also, for you have made judgment favorable to your sisters; because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they, they are more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also, and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous.
    53: "I will restore their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Sama'ria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in the midst of them,
    54: that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done, becoming a consolation to them.
    55: As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former estate, and Sama'ria and her daughters shall return to their former estate; and you and your daughters shall return to your former estate.
    56: Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in the day of your pride,
    57: before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become like her an object of reproach for the daughters of Edom and all her neighbors, and for the daughters of the Philistines, those round about who despise you.
    58: You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your abominations, says the LORD.
    59: "Yea, thus says the Lord GOD: I will deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant,
    60: yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish with you an everlasting covenant.
    61: Then you will remember your ways, and be ashamed when I take your sisters, both your elder and your younger, and give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you.
    62: I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the LORD,
    63: that you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I forgive you all that you have done, says the Lord GOD."

End of day 250.