Day 296:

Reading Luke, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: While the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennes'aret.
    2: And he saw two boats by the lake; but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets.
    3: Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people from the boat.
    4: And when he had ceased speaking, he said to Simon, "Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch."
    5: And Simon answered, "Master, we toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let down the nets."
    6: And when they had done this, they enclosed a great shoal of fish; and as their nets were breaking,
    7: they beckoned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
    8: But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord."
    9: For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the catch of fish which they had taken;
    10: and so also were James and John, sons of Zeb'edee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, "Do not be afraid; henceforth you will be catching men."
    11: And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him.
    12: While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy; and when he saw Jesus, he fell on his face and besought him, "Lord, if you will, you can make me clean."
    13: And he stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, "I will; be clean." And immediately the leprosy left him.
    14: And he charged him to tell no one; but "go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to the people."
    15: But so much the more the report went abroad concerning him; and great multitudes gathered to hear and to be healed of their infirmities.
    16: But he withdrew to the wilderness and prayed.
    17: On one of those days, as he was teaching, there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was with him to heal.
    18: And behold, men were bringing on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they sought to bring him in and lay him before Jesus;
    19: but finding no way to bring him in, because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and let him down with his bed through the tiles into the midst before Jesus.
    20: And when he saw their faith he said, "Man, your sins are forgiven you."
    21: And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, "Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only?"
    22: When Jesus perceived their questionings, he answered them, "Why do you question in your hearts?
    23: Which is easier, to say, `Your sins are forgiven you,' or to say, `Rise and walk'?
    24: But that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins" -- he said to the man who was paralyzed -- "I say to you, rise, take up your bed and go home."
    25: And immediately he rose before them, and took up that on which he lay, and went home, glorifying God.
    26: And amazement seized them all, and they glorified God and were filled with awe, saying, "We have seen strange things today."
    27: After this he went out, and saw a tax collector, named Levi, sitting at the tax office; and he said to him, "Follow me."
    28: And he left everything, and rose and followed him.
    29: And Levi made him a great feast in his house; and there was a large company of tax collectors and others sitting at table with them.
    30: And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured against his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?"
    31: And Jesus answered them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick;
    32: I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."
    33: And they said to him, "The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink."
    34: And Jesus said to them, "Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them?
    35: The days will come, when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days."
    36: He told them a parable also: "No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it upon an old garment; if he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old.
    37: And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; if he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
    38: But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
    39: And no one after drinking old wine desires new; for he says, `The old is good.'"

  Chapter 6.

    1: On a sabbath, while he was going through the grainfields, his disciples plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands.
    2: But some of the Pharisees said, "Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the sabbath?"
    3: And Jesus answered, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him:
    4: how he entered the house of God, and took and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?"
    5: And he said to them, "The Son of man is lord of the sabbath."
    6: On another sabbath, when he entered the synagogue and taught, a man was there whose right hand was withered.
    7: And the scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the sabbath, so that they might find an accusation against him.
    8: But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man who had the withered hand, "Come and stand here." And he rose and stood there.
    9: And Jesus said to them, "I ask you, is it lawful on the sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it?"
    10: And he looked around on them all, and said to him, "Stretch out your hand." And he did so, and his hand was restored.
    11: But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
    12: In these days he went out to the mountain to pray; and all night he continued in prayer to God.
    13: And when it was day, he called his disciples, and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles;
    14: Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip, and Bartholomew,
    15: and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot,
    16: and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
    17: And he came down with them and stood on a level place, with a great crowd of his disciples and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases;
    18: and those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured.
    19: And all the crowd sought to touch him, for power came forth from him and healed them all.
    20: And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: "Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
    21: "Blessed are you that hunger now, for you shall be satisfied. "Blessed are you that weep now, for you shall laugh.
    22: "Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude you and revile you, and cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of man!
    23: Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for so their fathers did to the prophets.
    24: "But woe to you that are rich, for you have received your consolation.
    25: "Woe to you that are full now, for you shall hunger. "Woe to you that laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep.
    26: "Woe to you, when all men speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets.
    27: "But I say to you that hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,
    28: bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.
    29: To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also; and from him who takes away your coat do not withhold even your shirt.
    30: Give to every one who begs from you; and of him who takes away your goods do not ask them again.
    31: And as you wish that men would do to you, do so to them.
    32: "If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
    33: And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
    34: And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
    35: But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return; and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; for he is kind to the ungrateful and the selfish.
    36: Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful.
    37: "Judge not, and you will not be judged; condemn not, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven;
    38: give, and it will be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For the measure you give will be the measure you get back."
    39: He also told them a parable: "Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit?
    40: A disciple is not above his teacher, but every one when he is fully taught will be like his teacher.
    41: Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
    42: Or how can you say to your brother, `Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,' when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye.
    43: "For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit;
    44: for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorns, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush.
    45: The good man out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil man out of his evil treasure produces evil; for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
    46: "Why do you call me `Lord, Lord,' and not do what I tell you?
    47: Every one who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like:
    48: he is like a man building a house, who dug deep, and laid the foundation upon rock; and when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
    49: But he who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation; against which the stream broke, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great."

  Chapter 7.

    1: After he had ended all his sayings in the hearing of the people he entered Caper'na-um.
    2: Now a centurion had a slave who was dear to him, who was sick and at the point of death.
    3: When he heard of Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his slave.
    4: And when they came to Jesus, they besought him earnestly, saying, "He is worthy to have you do this for him,
    5: for he loves our nation, and he built us our synagogue."
    6: And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, "Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof;
    7: therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed.
    8: For I am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me: and I say to one, `Go,' and he goes; and to another, `Come,' and he comes; and to my slave, `Do this,' and he does it."
    9: When Jesus heard this he marveled at him, and turned and said to the multitude that followed him, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith."
    10: And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave well.
    11: Soon afterward he went to a city called Na'in, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him.
    12: As he drew near to the gate of the city, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and a large crowd from the city was with her.
    13: And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, "Do not weep."
    14: And he came and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, "Young man, I say to you, arise."
    15: And the dead man sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
    16: Fear seized them all; and they glorified God, saying, "A great prophet has arisen among us!" and "God has visited his people!"
    17: And this report concerning him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country.
    18: The disciples of John told him of all these things.
    19: And John, calling to him two of his disciples, sent them to the Lord, saying, "Are you he who is to come, or shall we look for another?"
    20: And when the men had come to him, they said, "John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, `Are you he who is to come, or shall we look for another?'"
    21: In that hour he cured many of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many that were blind he bestowed sight.
    22: And he answered them, "Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them.
    23: And blessed is he who takes no offense at me."
    24: When the messengers of John had gone, he began to speak to the crowds concerning John: "What did you go out into the wilderness to behold? A reed shaken by the wind?
    25: What then did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are gorgeously appareled and live in luxury are in kings' courts.
    26: What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
    27: This is he of whom it is written, `Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.'
    28: I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John; yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he."
    29: (When they heard this all the people and the tax collectors justified God, having been baptized with the baptism of John;
    30: but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him.)
    31: "To what then shall I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like?
    32: They are like children sitting in the market place and calling to one another, `We piped to you, and you did not dance; we wailed, and you did not weep.'
    33: For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine; and you say, `He has a demon.'
    34: The Son of man has come eating and drinking; and you say, `Behold, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!'
    35: Yet wisdom is justified by all her children."
    36: One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisee's house, and took his place at table.
    37: And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment,
    38: and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
    39: Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw it, he said to himself, "If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner."
    40: And Jesus answering said to him, "Simon, I have something to say to you." And he answered, "What is it, Teacher?"
    41: "A certain creditor had two debtors; one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
    42: When they could not pay, he forgave them both. Now which of them will love him more?"
    43: Simon answered, "The one, I suppose, to whom he forgave more." And he said to him, "You have judged rightly."
    44: Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, "Do you see this woman? I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
    45: You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in she has not ceased to kiss my feet.
    46: You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
    47: Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much; but he who is forgiven little, loves little."
    48: And he said to her, "Your sins are forgiven."
    49: Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, "Who is this, who even forgives sins?"
    50: And he said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you; go in peace."

  Chapter 8.

    1: Soon afterward he went on through cities and villages, preaching and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him,
    2: and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Mag'dalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
    3: and Joan'na, the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their means.
    4: And when a great crowd came together and people from town after town came to him, he said in a parable:
    5: "A sower went out to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some fell along the path, and was trodden under foot, and the birds of the air devoured it.
    6: And some fell on the rock; and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture.
    7: And some fell among thorns; and the thorns grew with it and choked it.
    8: And some fell into good soil and grew, and yielded a hundredfold." As he said this, he called out, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
    9: And when his disciples asked him what this parable meant,
    10: he said, "To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God; but for others they are in parables, so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.
    11: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
    12: The ones along the path are those who have heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, that they may not believe and be saved.
    13: And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy; but these have no root, they believe for a while and in time of temptation fall away.
    14: And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.
    15: And as for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bring forth fruit with patience.
    16: "No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a vessel, or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, that those who enter may see the light.
    17: For nothing is hid that shall not be made manifest, nor anything secret that shall not be known and come to light.
    18: Take heed then how you hear; for to him who has will more be given, and from him who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away."
    19: Then his mother and his brothers came to him, but they could not reach him for the crowd.
    20: And he was told, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you."
    21: But he said to them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."
    22: One day he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us go across to the other side of the lake." So they set out,
    23: and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a storm of wind came down on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in danger.
    24: And they went and woke him, saying, "Master, Master, we are perishing!" And he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves; and they ceased, and there was a calm.
    25: He said to them, "Where is your faith?" And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, "Who then is this, that he commands even wind and water, and they obey him?"
    26: Then they arrived at the country of the Ger'asenes, which is opposite Galilee.
    27: And as he stepped out on land, there met him a man from the city who had demons; for a long time he had worn no clothes, and he lived not in a house but among the tombs.
    28: When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and said with a loud voice, "What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beseech you, do not torment me."
    29: For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (For many a time it had seized him; he was kept under guard, and bound with chains and fetters, but he broke the bonds and was driven by the demon into the desert.)
    30: Jesus then asked him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion"; for many demons had entered him.
    31: And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss.
    32: Now a large herd of swine was feeding there on the hillside; and they begged him to let them enter these. So he gave them leave.
    33: Then the demons came out of the man and entered the swine, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned.
    34: When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country.
    35: Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
    36: And those who had seen it told them how he who had been possessed with demons was healed.
    37: Then all the people of the surrounding country of the Ger'asenes asked him to depart from them; for they were seized with great fear; so he got into the boat and returned.
    38: The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him; but he sent him away, saying,
    39: "Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you." And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him.
    40: Now when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
    41: And there came a man named Ja'irus, who was a ruler of the synagogue; and falling at Jesus' feet he besought him to come to his house,
    42: for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. As he went, the people pressed round him.
    43: And a woman who had had a flow of blood for twelve years and could not be healed by any one,
    44: came up behind him, and touched the fringe of his garment; and immediately her flow of blood ceased.
    45: And Jesus said, "Who was it that touched me?" When all denied it, Peter said, "Master, the multitudes surround you and press upon you!"
    46: But Jesus said, "Some one touched me; for I perceive that power has gone forth from me."
    47: And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed.
    48: And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace."
    49: While he was still speaking, a man from the ruler's house came and said, "Your daughter is dead; do not trouble the Teacher any more."
    50: But Jesus on hearing this answered him, "Do not fear; only believe, and she shall be well."
    51: And when he came to the house, he permitted no one to enter with him, except Peter and John and James, and the father and mother of the child.
    52: And all were weeping and bewailing her; but he said, "Do not weep; for she is not dead but sleeping."
    53: And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead.
    54: But taking her by the hand he called, saying, "Child, arise."
    55: And her spirit returned, and she got up at once; and he directed that something should be given her to eat.
    56: And her parents were amazed; but he charged them to tell no one what had happened.

End of day 296.