Day 6:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did to Sarah as he had promised.
    2: And Sarah conceived, and bore Abraham a son in his old age at the time of which God had spoken to him.
    3: Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him, Isaac.
    4: And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
    5: Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him.
    6: And Sarah said, "God has made laughter for me; every one who hears will laugh over me."
    7: And she said, "Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would suckle children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age."
    8: And the child grew, and was weaned; and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
    9: But Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, playing with her son Isaac.
    10: So she said to Abraham, "Cast out this slave woman with her son; for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son Isaac."
    11: And the thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son.
    12: But God said to Abraham, "Be not displeased because of the lad and because of your slave woman; whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your descendants be named.
    13: And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring."
    14: So Abraham rose early in the morning, and took bread and a skin of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
    15: When the water in the skin was gone, she cast the child under one of the bushes.
    16: Then she went, and sat down over against him a good way off, about the distance of a bowshot; for she said, "Let me not look upon the death of the child." And as she sat over against him, the child lifted up his voice and wept.
    17: And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven, and said to her, "What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not; for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is.
    18: Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him fast with your hand; for I will make him a great nation."
    19: Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the skin with water, and gave the lad a drink.
    20: And God was with the lad, and he grew up; he lived in the wilderness, and became an expert with the bow.
    21: He lived in the wilderness of Paran; and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt.
    22: At that time Abim'elech and Phicol the commander of his army said to Abraham, "God is with you in all that you do;
    23: now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me or with my offspring or with my posterity, but as I have dealt loyally with you, you will deal with me and with the land where you have sojourned."
    24: And Abraham said, "I will swear."
    25: When Abraham complained to Abim'elech about a well of water which Abim'elech's servants had seized,
    26: Abim'elech said, "I do not know who has done this thing; you did not tell me, and I have not heard of it until today."
    27: So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abim'elech, and the two men made a covenant.
    28: Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock apart.
    29: And Abim'elech said to Abraham, "What is the meaning of these seven ewe lambs which you have set apart?"
    30: He said, "These seven ewe lambs you will take from my hand, that you may be a witness for me that I dug this well."
    31: Therefore that place was called Beer-sheba; because there both of them swore an oath.
    32: So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba. Then Abim'elech and Phicol the commander of his army rose up and returned to the land of the Philistines.
    33: Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the Everlasting God.
    34: And Abraham sojourned many days in the land of the Philistines.

  Chapter 22.

    1: After these things God tested Abraham, and said to him, "Abraham!" And he said, "Here am I."
    2: He said, "Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Mori'ah, and offer him there as a burnt offering upon one of the mountains of which I shall tell you."
    3: So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac; and he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him.
    4: On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off.
    5: Then Abraham said to his young men, "Stay here with the ass; I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you."
    6: And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it on Isaac his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together.
    7: And Isaac said to his father Abraham, "My father!" And he said, "Here am I, my son." He said, "Behold, the fire and the wood; but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?"
    8: Abraham said, "God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son." So they went both of them together.
    9: When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood.
    10: Then Abraham put forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
    11: But the angel of the LORD called to him from heaven, and said, "Abraham, Abraham!" And he said, "Here am I."
    12: He said, "Do not lay your hand on the lad or do anything to him; for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me."
    13: And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns; and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son.
    14: So Abraham called the name of that place The LORD will provide; as it is said to this day, "On the mount of the LORD it shall be provided."
    15: And the angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second time from heaven,
    16: and said, "By myself I have sworn, says the LORD, because you have done this, and have not withheld your son, your only son,
    17: I will indeed bless you, and I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore. And your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies,
    18: and by your descendants shall all the nations of the earth bless themselves, because you have obeyed my voice."
    19: So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
    20: Now after these things it was told Abraham, "Behold, Milcah also has borne children to your brother Nahor:
    21: Uz the first-born, Buz his brother, Kemu'el the father of Aram,
    22: Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethu'el."
    23: Bethu'el became the father of Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
    24: Moreover, his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Ma'acah.

  Chapter 23.

    1: Sarah lived a hundred and twenty-seven years; these were the years of the life of Sarah.
    2: And Sarah died at Kir'iath-ar'ba (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan; and Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.
    3: And Abraham rose up from before his dead, and said to the Hittites,
    4: "I am a stranger and a sojourner among you; give me property among you for a burying place, that I may bury my dead out of my sight."
    5: The Hittites answered Abraham,
    6: "Hear us, my lord; you are a mighty prince among us. Bury your dead in the choicest of our sepulchres; none of us will withhold from you his sepulchre, or hinder you from burying your dead."
    7: Abraham rose and bowed to the Hittites, the people of the land.
    8: And he said to them, "If you are willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and entreat for me Ephron the son of Zohar,
    9: that he may give me the cave of Mach-pe'lah, which he owns; it is at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me in your presence as a possession for a burying place."
    10: Now Ephron was sitting among the Hittites; and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites, of all who went in at the gate of his city,
    11: "No, my lord, hear me; I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it; in the presence of the sons of my people I give it to you; bury your dead."
    12: Then Abraham bowed down before the people of the land.
    13: And he said to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, "But if you will, hear me; I will give the price of the field; accept it from me, that I may bury my dead there."
    14: Ephron answered Abraham,
    15: "My lord, listen to me; a piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that between you and me? Bury your dead."
    16: Abraham agreed with Ephron; and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver which he had named in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the merchants.
    17: So the field of Ephron in Mach-pe'lah, which was to the east of Mamre, the field with the cave which was in it and all the trees that were in the field, throughout its whole area, was made over
    18: to Abraham as a possession in the presence of the Hittites, before all who went in at the gate of his city.
    19: After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Mach-pe'lah east of Mamre (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan.
    20: The field and the cave that is in it were made over to Abraham as a possession for a burying place by the Hittites.

  Chapter 24.

    1: Now Abraham was old, well advanced in years; and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.
    2: And Abraham said to his servant, the oldest of his house, who had charge of all that he had, "Put your hand under my thigh,
    3: and I will make you swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and of the earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell,
    4: but will go to my country and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son Isaac."
    5: The servant said to him, "Perhaps the woman may not be willing to follow me to this land; must I then take your son back to the land from which you came?"
    6: Abraham said to him, "See to it that you do not take my son back there.
    7: The LORD, the God of heaven, who took me from my father's house and from the land of my birth, and who spoke to me and swore to me, `To your descendants I will give this land,' he will send his angel before you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there.
    8: But if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be free from this oath of mine; only you must not take my son back there."
    9: So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and swore to him concerning this matter.
    10: Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, taking all sorts of choice gifts from his master; and he arose, and went to Mesopota'mia, to the city of Nahor.
    11: And he made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time when women go out to draw water.
    12: And he said, "O LORD, God of my master Abraham, grant me success today, I pray thee, and show steadfast love to my master Abraham.
    13: Behold, I am standing by the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
    14: Let the maiden to whom I shall say, `Pray let down your jar that I may drink,' and who shall say, `Drink, and I will water your camels' -- let her be the one whom thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac. By this I shall know that thou hast shown steadfast love to my master."
    15: Before he had done speaking, behold, Rebekah, who was born to Bethu'el the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, came out with her water jar upon her shoulder.
    16: The maiden was very fair to look upon, a virgin, whom no man had known. She went down to the spring, and filled her jar, and came up.
    17: Then the servant ran to meet her, and said, "Pray give me a little water to drink from your jar."
    18: She said, "Drink, my lord"; and she quickly let down her jar upon her hand, and gave him a drink.
    19: When she had finished giving him a drink, she said, "I will draw for your camels also, until they have done drinking."
    20: So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough and ran again to the well to draw, and she drew for all his camels.
    21: The man gazed at her in silence to learn whether the LORD had prospered his journey or not.
    22: When the camels had done drinking, the man took a gold ring weighing a half shekel, and two bracelets for her arms weighing ten gold shekels,
    23: and said, "Tell me whose daughter you are. Is there room in your father's house for us to lodge in?"
    24: She said to him, "I am the daughter of Bethu'el the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor."
    25: She added, "We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in."
    26: The man bowed his head and worshiped the LORD,
    27: and said, "Blessed be the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his steadfast love and his faithfulness toward my master. As for me, the LORD has led me in the way to the house of my master's kinsmen."
    28: Then the maiden ran and told her mother's household about these things.
    29: Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban; and Laban ran out to the man, to the spring.
    30: When he saw the ring, and the bracelets on his sister's arms, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, "Thus the man spoke to me," he went to the man; and behold, he was standing by the camels at the spring.
    31: He said, "Come in, O blessed of the LORD; why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house and a place for the camels."
    32: So the man came into the house; and Laban ungirded the camels, and gave him straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him.
    33: Then food was set before him to eat; but he said, "I will not eat until I have told my errand." He said, "Speak on."
    34: So he said, "I am Abraham's servant.
    35: The LORD has greatly blessed my master, and he has become great; he has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, menservants and maidservants, camels and asses.
    36: And Sarah my master's wife bore a son to my master when she was old; and to him he has given all that he has.
    37: My master made me swear, saying, `You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell;
    38: but you shall go to my father's house and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son.'
    39: I said to my master, `Perhaps the woman will not follow me.'
    40: But he said to me, `The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his angel with you and prosper your way; and you shall take a wife for my son from my kindred and from my father's house;
    41: then you will be free from my oath, when you come to my kindred; and if they will not give her to you, you will be free from my oath.'
    42: "I came today to the spring, and said, `O LORD, the God of my master Abraham, if now thou wilt prosper the way which I go,
    43: behold, I am standing by the spring of water; let the young woman who comes out to draw, to whom I shall say, "Pray give me a little water from your jar to drink,"
    44: and who will say to me, "Drink, and I will draw for your camels also," let her be the woman whom the LORD has appointed for my master's son.'
    45: "Before I had done speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah came out with her water jar on her shoulder; and she went down to the spring, and drew. I said to her, `Pray let me drink.'
    46: She quickly let down her jar from her shoulder, and said, `Drink, and I will give your camels drink also.' So I drank, and she gave the camels drink also.
    47: Then I asked her, `Whose daughter are you?' She said, The daughter of Bethu'el, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him.' So I put the ring on her nose, and the bracelets on her arms.
    48: Then I bowed my head and worshiped the LORD, and blessed the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me by the right way to take the daughter of my master's kinsman for his son.
    49: Now then, if you will deal loyally and truly with my master, tell me; and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand or to the left."
    50: Then Laban and Bethu'el answered, "The thing comes from the LORD; we cannot speak to you bad or good.
    51: Behold, Rebekah is before you, take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master's son, as the LORD has spoken."
    52: When Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the earth before the LORD.
    53: And the servant brought forth jewelry of silver and of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah; he also gave to her brother and to her mother costly ornaments.
    54: And he and the men who were with him ate and drank, and they spent the night there. When they arose in the morning, he said, "Send me back to my master."
    55: Her brother and her mother said, "Let the maiden remain with us a while, at least ten days; after that she may go."
    56: But he said to them, "Do not delay me, since the LORD has prospered my way; let me go that I may go to my master."
    57: They said, "We will call the maiden, and ask her."
    58: And they called Rebekah, and said to her, "Will you go with this man?" She said, "I will go."
    59: So they sent away Rebekah their sister and her nurse, and Abraham's servant and his men.
    60: And they blessed Rebekah, and said to her, "Our sister, be the mother of thousands of ten thousands; and may your descendants possess the gate of those who hate them!"
    61: Then Rebekah and her maids arose, and rode upon the camels and followed the man; thus the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.
    62: Now Isaac had come from Beer-la'hai-roi, and was dwelling in the Negeb.
    63: And Isaac went out to meditate in the field in the evening; and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there were camels coming.
    64: And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she alighted from the camel,
    65: and said to the servant, "Who is the man yonder, walking in the field to meet us?" The servant said, "It is my master." So she took her veil and covered herself.
    66: And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
    67: Then Isaac brought her into the tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.

End of day 6.