Day 149:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: In thy strength the king rejoices, O LORD; and in thy help how greatly he exults!
    2: Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withheld the request of his lips. [Selah]
    3: For thou dost meet him with goodly blessings; thou dost set a crown of fine gold upon his head.
    4: He asked life of thee; thou gavest it to him, length of days for ever and ever.
    5: His glory is great through thy help; splendor and majesty thou dost bestow upon him.
    6: Yea, thou dost make him most blessed for ever; thou dost make him glad with the joy of thy presence.
    7: For the king trusts in the LORD; and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be moved.
    8: Your hand will find out all your enemies; your right hand will find out those who hate you.
    9: You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath; and fire will consume them.
    10: You will destroy their offspring from the earth, and their children from among the sons of men.
    11: If they plan evil against you, if they devise mischief, they will not succeed.
    12: For you will put them to flight; you will aim at their faces with your bows.
    13: Be exalted, O LORD, in thy strength! We will sing and praise thy power.

  Chapter 22.

    1: My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me, from the words of my groaning?
    2: O my God, I cry by day, but thou dost not answer; and by night, but find no rest.
    3: Yet thou art holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel.
    4: In thee our fathers trusted; they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.
    5: To thee they cried, and were saved; in thee they trusted, and were not disappointed.
    6: But I am a worm, and no man; scorned by men, and despised by the people.
    7: All who see me mock at me, they make mouths at me, they wag their heads;
    8: "He committed his cause to the LORD; let him deliver him, let him rescue him, for he delights in him!"
    9: Yet thou art he who took me from the womb; thou didst keep me safe upon my mother's breasts.
    10: Upon thee was I cast from my birth, and since my mother bore me thou hast been my God.
    11: Be not far from me, for trouble is near and there is none to help.
    12: Many bulls encompass me, strong bulls of Bashan surround me;
    13: they open wide their mouths at me, like a ravening and roaring lion.
    14: I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is like wax, it is melted within my breast;
    15: my strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaves to my jaws; thou dost lay me in the dust of death.
    16: Yea, dogs are round about me; a company of evildoers encircle me; they have pierced my hands and feet --
    17: I can count all my bones -- they stare and gloat over me;
    18: they divide my garments among them, and for my raiment they cast lots.
    19: But thou, O LORD, be not far off! O thou my help, hasten to my aid!
    20: Deliver my soul from the sword, my life from the power of the dog!
    21: Save me from the mouth of the lion, my afflicted soul from the horns of the wild oxen!
    22: I will tell of thy name to my brethren; in the midst of the congregation I will praise thee:
    23: You who fear the LORD, praise him! all you sons of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you sons of Israel!
    24: For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; and he has not hid his face from him, but has heard, when he cried to him.
    25: From thee comes my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will pay before those who fear him.
    26: The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the LORD! May your hearts live for ever!
    27: All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD; and all the families of the nations shall worship before him.
    28: For dominion belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations.
    29: Yea, to him shall all the proud of the earth bow down; before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, and he who cannot keep himself alive.
    30: Posterity shall serve him; men shall tell of the Lord to the coming generation,
    31: and proclaim his deliverance to a people yet unborn, that he has wrought it.

  Chapter 23.

    1: The LORD is my shepherd, I shall not want;
    2: he makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters;
    3: he restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
    4: Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil; for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.
    5: Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of my enemies; thou anointest my head with oil, my cup overflows.
    6: Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I shall dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.

  Chapter 24.

    1: The earth is the LORD's and the fulness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein;
    2: for he has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the rivers.
    3: Who shall ascend the hill of the LORD? And who shall stand in his holy place?
    4: He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false, and does not swear deceitfully.
    5: He will receive blessing from the LORD, and vindication from the God of his salvation.
    6: Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. [Selah]
    7: Lift up your heads, O gates! and be lifted up, O ancient doors! that the King of glory may come in.
    8: Who is the King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty, the LORD, mighty in battle!
    9: Lift up your heads, O gates! and be lifted up, O ancient doors! that the King of glory may come in.
    10: Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory! [Selah]

End of day 149.