Day 175:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['125', '126', '127', '128']:

  Chapter 125.

    1: Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides for ever.
    2: As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people, from this time forth and for evermore.
    3: For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest upon the land allotted to the righteous, lest the righteous put forth their hands to do wrong.
    4: Do good, O LORD, to those who are good, and to those who are upright in their hearts!
    5: But those who turn aside upon their crooked ways the LORD will lead away with evildoers! Peace be in Israel!

  Chapter 126.

    1: When the LORD restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream.
    2: Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the nations, "The LORD has done great things for them."
    3: The LORD has done great things for us; we are glad.
    4: Restore our fortunes, O LORD, like the watercourses in the Negeb!
    5: May those who sow in tears reap with shouts of joy!
    6: He that goes forth weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him.

  Chapter 127.

    1: Unless the LORD builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.
    2: It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.
    3: Lo, sons are a heritage from the LORD, the fruit of the womb a reward.
    4: Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the sons of one's youth.
    5: Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.

  Chapter 128.

    1: Blessed is every one who fears the LORD, who walks in his ways!
    2: You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be happy, and it shall be well with you.
    3: Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around your table.
    4: Lo, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD.
    5: The LORD bless you from Zion! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life!
    6: May you see your children's children! Peace be upon Israel!

End of day 175.