Day 151:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: Ascribe to the LORD, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength.
    2: Ascribe to the LORD the glory of his name; worship the LORD in holy array.
    3: The voice of the LORD is upon the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD, upon many waters.
    4: The voice of the LORD is powerful, the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
    5: The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars, the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon.
    6: He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Si'rion like a young wild ox.
    7: The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire.
    8: The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness, the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
    9: The voice of the LORD makes the oaks to whirl, and strips the forests bare; and in his temple all cry, "Glory!"
    10: The LORD sits enthroned over the flood; the LORD sits enthroned as king for ever.
    11: May the LORD give strength to his people! May the LORD bless his people with peace!

  Chapter 30.

    1: I will extol thee, O LORD, for thou hast drawn me up, and hast not let my foes rejoice over me.
    2: O LORD my God, I cried to thee for help, and thou hast healed me.
    3: O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from Sheol, restored me to life from among those gone down to the Pit.
    4: Sing praises to the LORD, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name.
    5: For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning.
    6: As for me, I said in my prosperity, "I shall never be moved."
    7: By thy favor, O LORD, thou hadst established me as a strong mountain; thou didst hide thy face, I was dismayed.
    8: To thee, O LORD, I cried; and to the LORD I made supplication:
    9: "What profit is there in my death, if I go down to the Pit? Will the dust praise thee? Will it tell of thy faithfulness?
    10: Hear, O LORD, and be gracious to me! O LORD, be thou my helper!"
    11: Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing; thou hast loosed my sackcloth and girded me with gladness,
    12: that my soul may praise thee and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to thee for ever.

  Chapter 31.

    1: In thee, O LORD, do I seek refuge; let me never be put to shame; in thy righteousness deliver me!
    2: Incline thy ear to me, rescue me speedily! Be thou a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me!
    3: Yea, thou art my rock and my fortress; for thy name's sake lead me and guide me,
    4: take me out of the net which is hidden for me, for thou art my refuge.
    5: Into thy hand I commit my spirit; thou hast redeemed me, O LORD, faithful God.
    6: Thou hatest those who pay regard to vain idols; but I trust in the LORD.
    7: I will rejoice and be glad for thy steadfast love, because thou hast seen my affliction, thou hast taken heed of my adversities,
    8: and hast not delivered me into the hand of the enemy; thou hast set my feet in a broad place.
    9: Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am in distress; my eye is wasted from grief, my soul and my body also.
    10: For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my misery, and my bones waste away.
    11: I am the scorn of all my adversaries, a horror to my neighbors, an object of dread to my acquaintances; those who see me in the street flee from me.
    12: I have passed out of mind like one who is dead; I have become like a broken vessel.
    13: Yea, I hear the whispering of many -- terror on every side! -- as they scheme together against me, as they plot to take my life.
    14: But I trust in thee, O LORD, I say, "Thou art my God."
    15: My times are in thy hand; deliver me from the hand of my enemies and persecutors!
    16: Let thy face shine on thy servant; save me in thy steadfast love!
    17: Let me not be put to shame, O LORD, for I call on thee; let the wicked be put to shame, let them go dumbfounded to Sheol.
    18: Let the lying lips be dumb, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.
    19: O how abundant is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for those who fear thee, and wrought for those who take refuge in thee, in the sight of the sons of men!
    20: In the covert of thy presence thou hidest them from the plots of men; thou holdest them safe under thy shelter from the strife of tongues.
    21: Blessed be the LORD, for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was beset as in a besieged city.
    22: I had said in my alarm, "I am driven far from thy sight." But thou didst hear my supplications, when I cried to thee for help.
    23: Love the LORD, all you his saints! The LORD preserves the faithful, but abundantly requites him who acts haughtily.
    24: Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the LORD!

  Chapter 32.

    1: Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
    2: Blessed is the man to whom the LORD imputes no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit.
    3: When I declared not my sin, my body wasted away through my groaning all day long.
    4: For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me; my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. [Selah]
    5: I acknowledged my sin to thee, and I did not hide my iniquity; I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD"; then thou didst forgive the guilt of my sin. [Selah]
    6: Therefore let every one who is godly offer prayer to thee; at a time of distress, in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him.
    7: Thou art a hiding place for me, thou preservest me from trouble; thou dost encompass me with deliverance. [Selah]
    8: I will instruct you and teach you the way you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you.
    9: Be not like a horse or a mule, without understanding, which must be curbed with bit and bridle, else it will not keep with you.
    10: Many are the pangs of the wicked; but steadfast love surrounds him who trusts in the LORD.
    11: Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart!

End of day 151.