Day 99:

Reading 2-Chronicles, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon she came to Jerusalem to test him with hard questions, having a very great retinue and camels bearing spices and very much gold and precious stones. When she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
    2: And Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from Solomon which he could not explain to her.
    3: And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
    4: the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, and their clothing, his cupbearers, and their clothing, and his burnt offerings which he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her.
    5: And she said to the king, "The report was true which I heard in my own land of your affairs and of your wisdom,
    6: but I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it; and behold, half the greatness of your wisdom was not told me; you surpass the report which I heard.
    7: Happy are your wives! Happy are these your servants, who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom!
    8: Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and set you on his throne as king for the LORD your God! Because your God loved Israel and would establish them for ever, he has made you king over them, that you may execute justice and righteousness."
    9: Then she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and a very great quantity of spices, and precious stones: there were no spices such as those which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
    10: Moreover the servants of Huram and the servants of Solomon, who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum wood and precious stones.
    11: And the king made of the algum wood steps for the house of the LORD and for the king's house, lyres also and harps for the singers; there never was seen the like of them before in the land of Judah.
    12: And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked besides what she had brought to the king. So she turned and went back to her own land, with her servants.
    13: Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,
    14: besides that which the traders and merchants brought; and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land brought gold and silver to Solomon.
    15: King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold; six hundred shekels of beaten gold went into each shield.
    16: And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three hundred shekels of gold went into each shield; and the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
    17: The king also made a great ivory throne, and overlaid it with pure gold.
    18: The throne had six steps and a footstool of gold, which were attached to the throne, and on each side of the seat were arm rests and two lions standing beside the arm rests,
    19: while twelve lions stood there, one on each end of a step on the six steps. The like of it was never made in any kingdom.
    20: All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
    21: For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram; once every three years the ships of Tarshish used to come bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.
    22: Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
    23: And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind.
    24: Every one of them brought his present, articles of silver and of gold, garments, myrrh, spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year.
    25: And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
    26: And he ruled over all the kings from the Euphra'tes to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.
    27: And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and cedar as plentiful as the sycamore of the Shephe'lah.
    28: And horses were imported for Solomon from Egypt and from all lands.
    29: Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, from first to last, are they not written in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahi'jah the Shi'lonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jerobo'am the son of Nebat?
    30: Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
    31: And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father; and Rehobo'am his son reigned in his stead.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Rehobo'am went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
    2: And when Jerobo'am the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was in Egypt, whither he had fled from King Solomon), then Jerobo'am returned from Egypt.
    3: And they sent and called him; and Jerobo'am and all Israel came and said to Rehobo'am,
    4: "Your father made our yoke heavy. Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke upon us, and we will serve you."
    5: He said to them, "Come to me again in three days." So the people went away.
    6: Then King Rehobo'am took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Solomon his father while he was yet alive, saying, "How do you advise me to answer this people?"
    7: And they said to him, "If you will be kind to this people and please them, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants for ever."
    8: But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him, and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him and stood before him.
    9: And he said to them, "What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, `Lighten the yoke that your father put upon us'?"
    10: And the young men who had grown up with him said to him, "Thus shall you speak to the people who said to you, `Your father made our yoke heavy, but do you lighten it for us'; thus shall you say to them, `My little finger is thicker than my father's loins.
    11: And now, whereas my father laid upon you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.'"
    12: So Jerobo'am and all the people came to Rehobo'am the third day, as the king said, "Come to me again the third day."
    13: And the king answered them harshly, and forsaking the counsel of the old men,
    14: King Rehobo'am spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, "My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions."
    15: So the king did not hearken to the people; for it was a turn of affairs brought about by God that the LORD might fulfil his word, which he spoke by Ahi'jah the Shi'lonite to Jerobo'am the son of Nebat.
    16: And when all Israel saw that the king did not hearken to them, the people answered the king, "What portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Each of you to your tents, O Israel! Look now to your own house, David." So all Israel departed to their tents.
    17: But Rehobo'am reigned over the people of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah.
    18: Then King Rehobo'am sent Hador'am, who was taskmaster over the forced labor, and the people of Israel stoned him to death with stones. And King Rehobo'am made haste to mount his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
    19: So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.

  Chapter 11.

    1: When Rehobo'am came to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah, and Benjamin, a hundred and eighty thousand chosen warriors, to fight against Israel, to restore the kingdom to Rehobo'am.
    2: But the word of the LORD came to Shemai'ah the man of God:
    3: "Say to Rehobo'am the son of Solomon king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin,
    4: `Thus says the LORD, You shall not go up or fight against your brethren. Return every man to his home, for this thing is from me.'" So they hearkened to the word of the LORD, and returned and did not go against Jerobo'am.
    5: Rehobo'am dwelt in Jerusalem, and he built cities for defense in Judah.
    6: He built Bethlehem, Etam, Teko'a,
    7: Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam,
    8: Gath, Mare'shah, Ziph,
    9: Adora'im, Lachish, Aze'kah,
    10: Zorah, Ai'jalon, and Hebron, fortified cities which are in Judah and in Benjamin.
    11: He made the fortresses strong, and put commanders in them, and stores of food, oil, and wine.
    12: And he put shields and spears in all the cities, and made them very strong. So he held Judah and Benjamin.
    13: And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted to him from all places where they lived.
    14: For the Levites left their common lands and their holdings and came to Judah and Jerusalem, because Jerobo'am and his sons cast them out from serving as priests of the LORD,
    15: and he appointed his own priests for the high places, and for the satyrs, and for the calves which he had made.
    16: And those who had set their hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came after them from all the tribes of Israel to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
    17: They strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and for three years they made Rehobo'am the son of Solomon secure, for they walked for three years in the way of David and Solomon.
    18: Rehobo'am took as wife Ma'halath the daughter of Jer'imoth the son of David, and of Ab'ihail the daughter of Eli'ab the son of Jesse;
    19: and she bore him sons, Je'ush, Shemari'ah, and Zaham.
    20: After her he took Ma'acah the daughter of Ab'salom, who bore him Abi'jah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelo'mith.
    21: Rehobo'am loved Ma'acah the daughter of Ab'salom above all his wives and concubines (he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and had twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters);
    22: and Rehobo'am appointed Abi'jah the son of Ma'acah as chief prince among his brothers, for he intended to make him king.
    23: And he dealt wisely, and distributed some of his sons through all the districts of Judah and Benjamin, in all the fortified cities; and he gave them abundant provisions, and procured wives for them.

  Chapter 12.

    1: When the rule of Rehobo'am was established and was strong, he forsook the law of the LORD, and all Israel with him.
    2: In the fifth year of King Rehobo'am, because they had been unfaithful to the LORD, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem
    3: with twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the people were without number who came with him from Egypt -- Libyans, Suk'ki-im, and Ethiopians.
    4: And he took the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem.
    5: Then Shemai'ah the prophet came to Rehobo'am and to the princes of Judah, who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, "Thus says the LORD, `You abandoned me, so I have abandoned you to the hand of Shishak.'"
    6: Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, "The LORD is righteous."
    7: When the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemai'ah: "They have humbled themselves; I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
    8: Nevertheless they shall be servants to him, that they may know my service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries."
    9: So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem; he took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house; he took away everything. He also took away the shields of gold which Solomon had made;
    10: and King Rehobo'am made in their stead shields of bronze, and committed them to the hands of the officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
    11: And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard came and bore them, and brought them back to the guardroom.
    12: And when he humbled himself the wrath of the LORD turned from him, so as not to make a complete destruction; moreover, conditions were good in Judah.
    13: So King Rehobo'am established himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Rehobo'am was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. His mother's name was Na'amah the Ammonitess.
    14: And he did evil, for he did not set his heart to seek the LORD.
    15: Now the acts of Rehobo'am, from first to last, are they not written in the chronicles of Shemai'ah the prophet and of Iddo the seer? There were continual wars between Rehobo'am and Jerobo'am.
    16: And Rehobo'am slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David; and Abi'jah his son reigned in his stead.

End of day 99.