Day 268:

Reading Amos, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Teko'a, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzzi'ah king of Judah and in the days of Jerobo'am the son of Jo'ash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
    2: And he said: "The LORD roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem; the pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Carmel withers."
    3: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they have threshed Gilead with threshing sledges of iron.
    4: So I will send a fire upon the house of Haz'ael, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-ha'dad.
    5: I will break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitants from the Valley of Aven, and him that holds the scepter from Beth-eden; and the people of Syria shall go into exile to Kir," says the LORD.
    6: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they carried into exile a whole people to deliver them up to Edom.
    7: So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour her strongholds.
    8: I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him that holds the scepter from Ash'kelon; I will turn my hand against Ekron; and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish," says the Lord GOD.
    9: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they delivered up a whole people to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood.
    10: So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds."
    11: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because he pursued his brother with the sword, and cast off all pity, and his anger tore perpetually, and he kept his wrath for ever.
    12: So I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the strongholds of Bozrah."
    13: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they have ripped up women with child in Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.
    14: So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour her strongholds, with shouting in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;
    15: and their king shall go into exile, he and his princes together," says the LORD.

  Chapter 2.

    1: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because he burned to lime the bones of the king of Edom.
    2: So I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ker'ioth, and Moab shall die amid uproar, amid shouting and the sound of the trumpet;
    3: I will cut off the ruler from its midst, and will slay all its princes with him," says the LORD.
    4: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they have rejected the law of the LORD, and have not kept his statutes, but their lies have led them astray, after which their fathers walked.
    5: So I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem."
    6: Thus says the LORD: "For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment; because they sell the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes --
    7: they that trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth, and turn aside the way of the afflicted; a man and his father go in to the same maiden, so that my holy name is profaned;
    8: they lay themselves down beside every altar upon garments taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
    9: "Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and who was as strong as the oaks; I destroyed his fruit above, and his roots beneath.
    10: Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
    11: And I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not indeed so, O people of Israel?" says the LORD.
    12: "But you made the Nazirites drink wine, and commanded the prophets, saying, `You shall not prophesy.'
    13: "Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down.
    14: Flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not retain his strength, nor shall the mighty save his life;
    15: he who handles the bow shall not stand, and he who is swift of foot shall not save himself, nor shall he who rides the horse save his life;
    16: and he who is stout of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day," says the LORD.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt:
    2: "You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.
    3: "Do two walk together, unless they have made an appointment?
    4: Does a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den, if he has taken nothing?
    5: Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth, when there is no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the ground, when it has taken nothing?
    6: Is a trumpet blown in a city, and the people are not afraid? Does evil befall a city, unless the LORD has done it?
    7: Surely the Lord GOD does nothing, without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets.
    8: The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord GOD has spoken; who can but prophesy?"
    9: Proclaim to the strongholds in Assyria, and to the strongholds in the land of Egypt, and say, "Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Sama'ria, and see the great tumults within her, and the oppressions in her midst."
    10: "They do not know how to do right," says the LORD, "those who store up violence and robbery in their strongholds."
    11: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: "An adversary shall surround the land, and bring down your defenses from you, and your strongholds shall be plundered."
    12: Thus says the LORD: "As the shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the people of Israel who dwell in Sama'ria be rescued, with the corner of a couch and part of a bed."
    13: "Hear, and testify against the house of Jacob," says the Lord GOD, the God of hosts,
    14: "that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions, I will punish the altars of Bethel, and the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground.
    15: I will smite the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall come to an end," says the LORD.

  Chapter 4.

    1: "Hear this word, you cows of Bashan, who are in the mountain of Sama'ria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who say to their husbands, `Bring, that we may drink!'
    2: The Lord GOD has sworn by his holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you, when they shall take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fishhooks.
    3: And you shall go out through the breaches, every one straight before her; and you shall be cast forth into Harmon," says the LORD.
    4: "Come to Bethel, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days;
    5: offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim freewill offerings, publish them; for so you love to do, O people of Israel!" says the Lord GOD.
    6: "I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places, yet you did not return to me," says the LORD.
    7: "And I also withheld the rain from you when there were yet three months to the harvest; I would send rain upon one city, and send no rain upon another city; one field would be rained upon, and the field on which it did not rain withered;
    8: so two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied; yet you did not return to me," says the LORD.
    9: "I smote you with blight and mildew; I laid waste your gardens and your vineyards; your fig trees and your olive trees the locust devoured; yet you did not return to me," says the LORD.
    10: "I sent among you a pestilence after the manner of Egypt; I slew your young men with the sword; I carried away your horses; and I made the stench of your camp go up into your nostrils; yet you did not return to me," says the LORD.
    11: "I overthrew some of you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomor'rah, and you were as a brand plucked out of the burning; yet you did not return to me," says the LORD.
    12: "Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel!"
    13: For lo, he who forms the mountains, and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought; who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the heights of the earth -- the LORD, the God of hosts, is his name!

End of day 268.