Day 336:

Reading 1-Timothy, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Do not rebuke an older man but exhort him as you would a father; treat younger men like brothers,
    2: older women like mothers, younger women like sisters, in all purity.
    3: Honor widows who are real widows.
    4: If a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn their religious duty to their own family and make some return to their parents; for this is acceptable in the sight of God.
    5: She who is a real widow, and is left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day;
    6: whereas she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives.
    7: Command this, so that they may be without reproach.
    8: If any one does not provide for his relatives, and especially for his own family, he has disowned the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
    9: Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband;
    10: and she must be well attested for her good deeds, as one who has brought up children, shown hospitality, washed the feet of the saints, relieved the afflicted, and devoted herself to doing good in every way.
    11: But refuse to enrol younger widows; for when they grow wanton against Christ they desire to marry,
    12: and so they incur condemnation for having violated their first pledge.
    13: Besides that, they learn to be idlers, gadding about from house to house, and not only idlers but gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not.
    14: So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, rule their households, and give the enemy no occasion to revile us.
    15: For some have already strayed after Satan.
    16: If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her assist them; let the church not be burdened, so that it may assist those who are real widows.
    17: Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching;
    18: for the scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain," and, "The laborer deserves his wages."
    19: Never admit any charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
    20: As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear.
    21: In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules without favor, doing nothing from partiality.
    22: Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor participate in another man's sins; keep yourself pure.
    23: No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.
    24: The sins of some men are conspicuous, pointing to judgment, but the sins of others appear later.
    25: So also good deeds are conspicuous; and even when they are not, they cannot remain hidden.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Let all who are under the yoke of slavery regard their masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be defamed.
    2: Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brethren; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their service are believers and beloved. Teach and urge these duties.
    3: If any one teaches otherwise and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching which accords with godliness,
    4: he is puffed up with conceit, he knows nothing; he has a morbid craving for controversy and for disputes about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, base suspicions,
    5: and wrangling among men who are depraved in mind and bereft of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain.
    6: There is great gain in godliness with contentment;
    7: for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world;
    8: but if we have food and clothing, with these we shall be content.
    9: But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and hurtful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction.
    10: For the love of money is the root of all evils; it is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced their hearts with many pangs.
    11: But as for you, man of God, shun all this; aim at righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.
    12: Fight the good fight of the faith; take hold of the eternal life to which you were called when you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
    13: In the presence of God who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession,
    14: I charge you to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ;
    15: and this will be made manifest at the proper time by the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
    16: who alone has immortality and dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
    17: As for the rich in this world, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on uncertain riches but on God who richly furnishes us with everything to enjoy.
    18: They are to do good, to be rich in good deeds, liberal and generous,
    19: thus laying up for themselves a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of the life which is life indeed.
    20: O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you. Avoid the godless chatter and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge,
    21: for by professing it some have missed the mark as regards the faith. Grace be with you.

End of day 336.