Day 14:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob, each with his household:
    2: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
    3: Is'sachar, Zeb'ulun, and Benjamin,
    4: Dan and Naph'tali, Gad and Asher.
    5: All the offspring of Jacob were seventy persons; Joseph was already in Egypt.
    6: Then Joseph died, and all his brothers, and all that generation.
    7: But the descendants of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly; they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong; so that the land was filled with them.
    8: Now there arose a new king over Egypt, who did not know Joseph.
    9: And he said to his people, "Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us.
    10: Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply, and, if war befall us, they join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land."
    11: Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens; and they built for Pharaoh store-cities, Pithom and Ra-am'ses.
    12: But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel.
    13: So they made the people of Israel serve with rigor,
    14: and made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field; in all their work they made them serve with rigor.
    15: Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiph'rah and the other Pu'ah,
    16: "When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, she shall live."
    17: But the midwives feared God, and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live.
    18: So the king of Egypt called the midwives, and said to them, "Why have you done this, and let the male children live?"
    19: The midwives said to Pharaoh, "Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous and are delivered before the midwife comes to them."
    20: So God dealt well with the midwives; and the people multiplied and grew very strong.
    21: And because the midwives feared God he gave them families.
    22: Then Pharaoh commanded all his people, "Every son that is born to the Hebrews you shall cast into the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live."

  Chapter 2.

    1: Now a man from the house of Levi went and took to wife a daughter of Levi.
    2: The woman conceived and bore a son; and when she saw that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.
    3: And when she could hide him no longer she took for him a basket made of bulrushes, and daubed it with bitumen and pitch; and she put the child in it and placed it among the reeds at the river's brink.
    4: And his sister stood at a distance, to know what would be done to him.
    5: Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river, and her maidens walked beside the river; she saw the basket among the reeds and sent her maid to fetch it.
    6: When she opened it she saw the child; and lo, the babe was crying. She took pity on him and said, "This is one of the Hebrews' children."
    7: Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, "Shall I go and call you a nurse from the Hebrew women to nurse the child for you?"
    8: And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Go." So the girl went and called the child's mother.
    9: And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Take this child away, and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages." So the woman took the child and nursed him.
    10: And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son; and she named him Moses, for she said, "Because I drew him out of the water."
    11: One day, when Moses had grown up, he went out to his people and looked on their burdens; and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his people.
    12: He looked this way and that, and seeing no one he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand.
    13: When he went out the next day, behold, two Hebrews were struggling together; and he said to the man that did the wrong, "Why do you strike your fellow?"
    14: He answered, "Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?" Then Moses was afraid, and thought, "Surely the thing is known."
    15: When Pharaoh heard of it, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh, and stayed in the land of Mid'ian; and he sat down by a well.
    16: Now the priest of Mid'ian had seven daughters; and they came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
    17: The shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
    18: When they came to their father Reu'el, he said, "How is it that you have come so soon today?"
    19: They said, "An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and even drew water for us and watered the flock."
    20: He said to his daughters, "And where is he? Why have you left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread."
    21: And Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses his daughter Zippo'rah.
    22: She bore a son, and he called his name Gershom; for he said, "I have been a sojourner in a foreign land."
    23: In the course of those many days the king of Egypt died. And the people of Israel groaned under their bondage, and cried out for help, and their cry under bondage came up to God.
    24: And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
    25: And God saw the people of Israel, and God knew their condition.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Mid'ian; and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness, and came to Horeb, the mountain of God.
    2: And the angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush; and he looked, and lo, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed.
    3: And Moses said, "I will turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt."
    4: When the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush, "Moses, Moses!" And he said, "Here am I."
    5: Then he said, "Do not come near; put off your shoes from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground."
    6: And he said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God.
    7: Then the LORD said, "I have seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters; I know their sufferings,
    8: and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites.
    9: And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
    10: Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring forth my people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt."
    11: But Moses said to God, "Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh, and bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt?"
    12: He said, "But I will be with you; and this shall be the sign for you, that I have sent you: when you have brought forth the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God upon this mountain."
    13: Then Moses said to God, "If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, `The God of your fathers has sent me to you,' and they ask me, `What is his name?' what shall I say to them?"
    14: God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." And he said, "Say this to the people of Israel, `I AM has sent me to you.'"
    15: God also said to Moses, "Say this to the people of Israel, `The LORD, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you': this is my name for ever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations.
    16: Go and gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, `The LORD, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, "I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt;
    17: and I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt, to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites, a land flowing with milk and honey."'
    18: And they will hearken to your voice; and you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, `The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us; and now, we pray you, let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.'
    19: I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless compelled by a mighty hand.
    20: So I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all the wonders which I will do in it; after that he will let you go.
    21: And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and when you go, you shall not go empty,
    22: but each woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who sojourns in her house, jewelry of silver and of gold, and clothing, and you shall put them on your sons and on your daughters; thus you shall despoil the Egyptians."

  Chapter 4.

    1: Then Moses answered, "But behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, `The LORD did not appear to you.'"
    2: The LORD said to him, "What is that in your hand?" He said, "A rod."
    3: And he said, "Cast it on the ground." So he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from it.
    4: But the LORD said to Moses, "Put out your hand, and take it by the tail" -- so he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand --
    5: "that they may believe that the LORD, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you."
    6: Again, the LORD said to him, "Put your hand into your bosom." And he put his hand into his bosom; and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous, as white as snow.
    7: Then God said, "Put your hand back into your bosom." So he put his hand back into his bosom; and when he took it out, behold, it was restored like the rest of his flesh.
    8: "If they will not believe you," God said, "or heed the first sign, they may believe the latter sign.
    9: If they will not believe even these two signs or heed your voice, you shall take some water from the Nile and pour it upon the dry ground; and the water which you shall take from the Nile will become blood upon the dry ground."
    10: But Moses said to the LORD, "Oh, my Lord, I am not eloquent, either heretofore or since thou hast spoken to thy servant; but I am slow of speech and of tongue."
    11: Then the LORD said to him, "Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him dumb, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I, the LORD?
    12: Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak."
    13: But he said, "Oh, my Lord, send, I pray, some other person."
    14: Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses and he said, "Is there not Aaron, your brother, the Levite? I know that he can speak well; and behold, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you he will be glad in his heart.
    15: And you shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth; and I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you what you shall do.
    16: He shall speak for you to the people; and he shall be a mouth for you, and you shall be to him as God.
    17: And you shall take in your hand this rod, with which you shall do the signs."
    18: Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, "Let me go back, I pray, to my kinsmen in Egypt and see whether they are still alive." And Jethro said to Moses, "Go in peace."
    19: And the LORD said to Moses in Mid'ian, "Go back to Egypt; for all the men who were seeking your life are dead."
    20: So Moses took his wife and his sons and set them on an ass, and went back to the land of Egypt; and in his hand Moses took the rod of God.
    21: And the LORD said to Moses, "When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles which I have put in your power; but I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go.
    22: And you shall say to Pharaoh, `Thus says the LORD, Israel is my first-born son,
    23: and I say to you, "Let my son go that he may serve me"; if you refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay your first-born son.'"
    24: At a lodging place on the way the LORD met him and sought to kill him.
    25: Then Zippo'rah took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin, and touched Moses' feet with it, and said, "Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me!"
    26: So he let him alone. Then it was that she said, "You are a bridegroom of blood," because of the circumcision.
    27: The LORD said to Aaron, "Go into the wilderness to meet Moses." So he went, and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him.
    28: And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD with which he had sent him, and all the signs which he had charged him to do.
    29: Then Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the people of Israel.
    30: And Aaron spoke all the words which the LORD had spoken to Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people.
    31: And the people believed; and when they heard that the LORD had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, they bowed their heads and worshiped.

End of day 14.