Day 196:

Reading Wisdom, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then the righteous man will stand with great confidence in the presence of those who have afflicted him, and those who make light of his labors.
    2: When they see him, they will be shaken with dreadful fear, and they will be amazed at his unexpected salvation.
    3: They will speak to one another in repentance, and in anguish of spirit they will groan, and say,
    4: "This is the man whom we once held in derision and made a byword of reproach -- we fools! We thought that his life was madness and that his end was without honor.
    5: Why has he been numbered among the sons of God? And why is his lot among the saints?
    6: So it was we who strayed from the way of truth, and the light of righteousness did not shine on us, and the sun did not rise upon us.
    7: We took our fill of the paths of lawlessness and destruction, and we journeyed through trackless deserts, but the way of the Lord we have not known.
    8: What has our arrogance profited us? And what good has our boasted wealth brought us?
    9: "All those things have vanished like a shadow, and like a rumor that passes by;
    10: like a ship that sails through the billowy water, and when it has passed no trace can be found, nor track of its keel in the waves;
    11: or as, when a bird flies through the air, no evidence of its passage is found; the light air, lashed by the beat of its pinions and pierced by the force of its rushing flight, is traversed by the movement of its wings, and afterward no sign of its coming is found there;
    12: or as, when an arrow is shot at a target, the air, thus divided, comes together at once, so that no one knows its pathway.
    13: So we also, as soon as we were born, ceased to be, and we had no sign of virtue to show, but were consumed in our wickedness."
    14: Because the hope of the ungodly man is like chaff carried by the wind, and like a light hoarfrost driven away by a storm; it is dispersed like smoke before the wind, and it passes like the remembrance of a guest who stays but a day.
    15: But the righteous live for ever, and their reward is with the Lord; the Most High takes care of them.
    16: Therefore they will receive a glorious crown and a beautiful diadem from the hand of the Lord, because with his right hand he will cover them, and with his arm he will shield them.
    17: The Lord will take his zeal as his whole armor, and will arm all creation to repel his enemies;
    18: he will put on righteousness as a breastplate, and wear impartial justice as a helmet;
    19: he will take holiness as an invincible shield,
    20: and sharpen stern wrath for a sword, and creation will join with him to fight against the madmen.
    21: Shafts of lightning will fly with true aim, and will leap to the target as from a well-drawn bow of clouds,
    22: and hailstones full of wrath will be hurled as from a catapult; the water of the sea will rage against them, and rivers will relentlessly overwhelm them;
    23: a mighty wind will rise against them , and like a tempest it will winnow them away. Lawlessness will lay waste the whole earth, and evil-doing will overturn the thrones of rulers.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Listen therefore, O kings, and understand; learn, O judges of the ends of the earth.
    2: Give ear, you that rule over multitudes, and boast of many nations.
    3: For your dominion was given you from the Lord, and your sovereignty from the Most High, who will search out your works and inquire into your plans.
    4: Because as servants of his kingdom you did not rule rightly, nor keep the law, nor walk according to the purpose of God,
    5: he will come upon you terribly and swiftly, because severe judgment falls on those in high places.
    6: For the lowliest man may be pardoned in mercy, but mighty men will be mightily tested.
    7: For the Lord of all will not stand in awe of any one, nor show deference to greatness; because he himself made both small and great, and he takes thought for all alike.
    8: But a strict inquiry is in store for the mighty.
    9: To you then, O monarchs, my words are directed, that you may learn wisdom and not transgress.
    10: For they will be made holy who observe holy things in holiness, and those who have been taught them will find a defense.
    11: Therefore set your desire on my words; long for them, and you will be instructed.
    12: Wisdom is radiant and unfading, and she is easily discerned by those who love her, and is found by those who seek her.
    13: She hastens to make herself known to those who desire her.
    14: He who rises early to seek her will have no difficulty, for he will find her sitting at his gates.
    15: To fix one's thought on her is perfect understanding, and he who is vigilant on her account will soon be free from care,
    16: because she goes about seeking those worthy of her, and she graciously appears to them in their paths, and meets them in every thought.
    17: The beginning of wisdom is the most sincere desire for instruction, and concern for instruction is love of her,
    18: and love of her is the keeping of her laws, and giving heed to her laws is assurance of immortality,
    19: and immortality brings one near to God;
    20: so the desire for wisdom leads to a kingdom.
    21: Therefore if you delight in thrones and scepters, O monarchs over the peoples, honor wisdom, that you may reign for ever.
    22: I will tell you what wisdom is and how she came to be, and I will hide no secrets from you, but I will trace her course from the beginning of creation, and make knowledge of her clear, and I will not pass by the truth;
    23: neither will I travel in the company of sickly envy, for envy does not associate with wisdom.
    24: A multitude of wise men is the salvation of the world, and a sensible king is the stability of his people.
    25: Therefore be instructed by my words, and you will profit.

  Chapter 7.

    1: I also am mortal, like all men, a descendant of the first-formed child of earth; and in the womb of a mother I was molded into flesh,
    2: within the period of ten months, compacted with blood, from the seed of a man and the pleasure of marriage.
    3: And when I was born, I began to breathe the common air, and fell upon the kindred earth, and my first sound was a cry, like that of all.
    4: I was nursed with care in swaddling cloths.
    5: For no king has had a different beginning of existence;
    6: there is for all mankind one entrance into life, and a common departure.
    7: Therefore I prayed, and understanding was given me; I called upon God, and the spirit of wisdom came to me.
    8: I preferred her to scepters and thrones, and I accounted wealth as nothing in comparison with her.
    9: Neither did I liken to her any priceless gem, because all gold is but a little sand in her sight, and silver will be accounted as clay before her.
    10: I loved her more than health and beauty, and I chose to have her rather than light, because her radiance never ceases.
    11: All good things came to me along with her, and in her hands uncounted wealth.
    12: I rejoiced in them all, because wisdom leads them; but I did not know that she was their mother.
    13: I learned without guile and I impart without grudging; I do not hide her wealth,
    14: for it is an unfailing treasure for men; those who get it obtain friendship with God, commended for the gifts that come from instruction.
    15: May God grant that I speak with judgment and have thought worthy of what I have received, for he is the guide even of wisdom and the corrector of the wise.
    16: For both we and our words are in his hand, as are all understanding and skill in crafts.
    17: For it is he who gave me unerring knowledge of what exists, to know the structure of the world and the activity of the elements;
    18: the beginning and end and middle of times, the alternations of the solstices and the changes of the seasons,
    19: the cycles of the year and the constellations of the stars,
    20: the natures of animals and the tempers of wild beasts, the powers of spirits and the reasonings of men, the varieties of plants and the virtues of roots;
    21: I learned both what is secret and what is manifest,
    22: for wisdom, the fashioner of all things, taught me. For in her there is a spirit that is intelligent, holy, unique, manifold, subtle, mobile, clear, unpolluted, distinct, invulnerable, loving the good, keen, irresistible,
    23: beneficent, humane, steadfast, sure, free from anxiety, all-powerful, overseeing all, and penetrating through all spirits that are intelligent and pure and most subtle.
    24: For wisdom is more mobile than any motion; because of her pureness she pervades and penetrates all things.
    25: For she is a breath of the power of God, and a pure emanation of the glory of the Almighty; therefore nothing defiled gains entrance into her.
    26: For she is a reflection of eternal light, a spotless mirror of the working of God, and an image of his goodness.
    27: Though she is but one, she can do all things, and while remaining in herself, she renews all things; in every generation she passes into holy souls and makes them friends of God, and prophets;
    28: for God loves nothing so much as the man who lives with wisdom.
    29: For she is more beautiful than the sun, and excels every constellation of the stars. Compared with the light she is found to be superior,
    30: for it is succeeded by the night, but against wisdom evil does not prevail.

  Chapter 8.

    1: She reaches mightily from one end of the earth to the other, and she orders all things well.
    2: I loved her and sought her from my youth, and I desired to take her for my bride, and I became enamored of her beauty.
    3: She glorifies her noble birth by living with God, and the Lord of all loves her.
    4: For she is an initiate in the knowledge of God, and an associate in his works.
    5: If riches are a desirable possession in life, what is richer than wisdom who effects all things?
    6: And if understanding is effective, who more than she is fashioner of what exists?
    7: And if any one loves righteousness, her labors are virtues; for she teaches self-control and prudence, justice and courage; nothing in life is more profitable for men than these.
    8: And if any one longs for wide experience, she knows the things of old, and infers the things to come; she understands turns of speech and the solutions of riddles; she has foreknowledge of signs and wonders and of the outcome of seasons and times.
    9: Therefore I determined to take her to live with me, knowing that she would give me good counsel and encouragement in cares and grief.
    10: Because of her I shall have glory among the multitudes and honor in the presence of the elders, though I am young.
    11: I shall be found keen in judgment, and in the sight of rulers I shall be admired.
    12: When I am silent they will wait for me, and when I speak they will give heed; and when I speak at greater length they will put their hands on their mouths.
    13: Because of her I shall have immortality, and leave an everlasting remembrance to those who come after me.
    14: I shall govern peoples, and nations will be subject to me;
    15: dread monarchs will be afraid of me when they hear of me; among the people I shall show myself capable, and courageous in war.
    16: When I enter my house, I shall find rest with her, for companionship with her has no bitterness, and life with her has no pain, but gladness and joy.
    17: When I considered these things inwardly, and thought upon them in my mind, that in kinship with wisdom there is immortality,
    18: and in friendship with her, pure delight, and in the labors of her hands, unfailing wealth, and in the experience of her company, understanding, and renown in sharing her words, I went about seeking how to get her for myself.
    19: As a child I was by nature well endowed, and a good soul fell to my lot;
    20: or rather, being good, I entered an undefiled body.
    21: But I perceived that I would not possess wisdom unless God gave her to me -- and it was a mark of insight to know whose gift she was -- so I appealed to the Lord and besought him, and with my whole heart I said:

End of day 196.