Day 5:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: When Abram was ninety-nine years old the LORD appeared to Abram, and said to him, "I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless.
    2: And I will make my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly."
    3: Then Abram fell on his face; and God said to him,
    4: "Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations.
    5: No longer shall your name be Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.
    6: I will make you exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come forth from you.
    7: And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your descendants after you.
    8: And I will give to you, and to your descendants after you, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God."
    9: And God said to Abraham, "As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations.
    10: This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your descendants after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised.
    11: You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you.
    12: He that is eight days old among you shall be circumcised; every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house, or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring,
    13: both he that is born in your house and he that is bought with your money, shall be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh an everlasting covenant.
    14: Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant."
    15: And God said to Abraham, "As for Sar'ai your wife, you shall not call her name Sar'ai, but Sarah shall be her name.
    16: I will bless her, and moreover I will give you a son by her; I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peoples shall come from her."
    17: Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed, and said to himself, "Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?"
    18: And Abraham said to God, "O that Ish'mael might live in thy sight!"
    19: God said, "No, but Sarah your wife shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him.
    20: As for Ish'mael, I have heard you; behold, I will bless him and make him fruitful and multiply him exceedingly; he shall be the father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation.
    21: But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this season next year."
    22: When he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham.
    23: Then Abraham took Ish'mael his son and all the slaves born in his house or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day, as God had said to him.
    24: Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
    25: And Ish'mael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
    26: That very day Abraham and his son Ish'mael were circumcised;
    27: and all the men of his house, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And the LORD appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day.
    2: He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men stood in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the earth,
    3: and said, "My lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant.
    4: Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree,
    5: while I fetch a morsel of bread, that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on -- since you have come to your servant." So they said, "Do as you have said."
    6: And Abraham hastened into the tent to Sarah, and said, "Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes."
    7: And Abraham ran to the herd, and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to the servant, who hastened to prepare it.
    8: Then he took curds, and milk, and the calf which he had prepared, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree while they ate.
    9: They said to him, "Where is Sarah your wife?" And he said, "She is in the tent."
    10: The LORD said, "I will surely return to you in the spring, and Sarah your wife shall have a son." And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him.
    11: Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
    12: So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, "After I have grown old, and my husband is old, shall I have pleasure?"
    13: The LORD said to Abraham, "Why did Sarah laugh, and say, `Shall I indeed bear a child, now that I am old?'
    14: Is anything too hard for the LORD? At the appointed time I will return to you, in the spring, and Sarah shall have a son."
    15: But Sarah denied, saying, "I did not laugh"; for she was afraid. He said, "No, but you did laugh."
    16: Then the men set out from there, and they looked toward Sodom; and Abraham went with them to set them on their way.
    17: The LORD said, "Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do,
    18: seeing that Abraham shall become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall bless themselves by him?
    19: No, for I have chosen him, that he may charge his children and his household after him to keep the way of the LORD by doing righteousness and justice; so that the LORD may bring to Abraham what he has promised him."
    20: Then the LORD said, "Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomor'rah is great and their sin is very grave,
    21: I will go down to see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry which has come to me; and if not, I will know."
    22: So the men turned from there, and went toward Sodom; but Abraham still stood before the LORD.
    23: Then Abraham drew near, and said, "Wilt thou indeed destroy the righteous with the wicked?
    24: Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city; wilt thou then destroy the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous who are in it?
    25: Far be it from thee to do such a thing, to slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked! Far be that from thee! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?"
    26: And the LORD said, "If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake."
    27: Abraham answered, "Behold, I have taken upon myself to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes.
    28: Suppose five of the fifty righteous are lacking? Wilt thou destroy the whole city for lack of five?" And he said, "I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there."
    29: Again he spoke to him, and said, "Suppose forty are found there." He answered, "For the sake of forty I will not do it."
    30: Then he said, "Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty are found there." He answered, "I will not do it, if I find thirty there."
    31: He said, "Behold, I have taken upon myself to speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty are found there." He answered, "For the sake of twenty I will not destroy it."
    32: Then he said, "Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again but this once. Suppose ten are found there." He answered, "For the sake of ten I will not destroy it."
    33: And the LORD went his way, when he had finished speaking to Abraham; and Abraham returned to his place.

  Chapter 19.

    1: The two angels came to Sodom in the evening; and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them, and bowed himself with his face to the earth,
    2: and said, "My lords, turn aside, I pray you, to your servant's house and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you may rise up early and go on your way." They said, "No; we will spend the night in the street."
    3: But he urged them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house; and he made them a feast, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
    4: But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house;
    5: and they called to Lot, "Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them."
    6: Lot went out of the door to the men, shut the door after him,
    7: and said, "I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly.
    8: Behold, I have two daughters who have not known man; let me bring them out to you, and do to them as you please; only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the shelter of my roof."
    9: But they said, "Stand back!" And they said, "This fellow came to sojourn, and he would play the judge! Now we will deal worse with you than with them." Then they pressed hard against the man Lot, and drew near to break the door.
    10: But the men put forth their hands and brought Lot into the house to them, and shut the door.
    11: And they struck with blindness the men who were at the door of the house, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves groping for the door.
    12: Then the men said to Lot, "Have you any one else here? Sons-in-law, sons, daughters, or any one you have in the city, bring them out of the place;
    13: for we are about to destroy this place, because the outcry against its people has become great before the LORD, and the LORD has sent us to destroy it."
    14: So Lot went out and said to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, "Up, get out of this place; for the LORD is about to destroy the city." But he seemed to his sons-in-law to be jesting.
    15: When morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, "Arise, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be consumed in the punishment of the city."
    16: But he lingered; so the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, the LORD being merciful to him, and they brought him forth and set him outside the city.
    17: And when they had brought them forth, they said, "Flee for your life; do not look back or stop anywhere in the valley; flee to the hills, lest you be consumed."
    18: And Lot said to them, "Oh, no, my lords;
    19: behold, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have shown me great kindness in saving my life; but I cannot flee to the hills, lest the disaster overtake me, and I die.
    20: Behold, yonder city is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one. Let me escape there -- is it not a little one? -- and my life will be saved!"
    21: He said to him, "Behold, I grant you this favor also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken.
    22: Make haste, escape there; for I can do nothing till you arrive there." Therefore the name of the city was called Zo'ar.
    23: The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zo'ar.
    24: Then the LORD rained on Sodom and Gomor'rah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven;
    25: and he overthrew those cities, and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground.
    26: But Lot's wife behind him looked back, and she became a pillar of salt.
    27: And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the LORD;
    28: and he looked down toward Sodom and Gomor'rah and toward all the land of the valley, and beheld, and lo, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace.
    29: So it was that, when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot dwelt.
    30: Now Lot went up out of Zo'ar, and dwelt in the hills with his two daughters, for he was afraid to dwell in Zo'ar; so he dwelt in a cave with his two daughters.
    31: And the first-born said to the younger, "Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come in to us after the manner of all the earth.
    32: Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve offspring through our father."
    33: So they made their father drink wine that night; and the first-born went in, and lay with her father; he did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
    34: And on the next day, the first-born said to the younger, "Behold, I lay last night with my father; let us make him drink wine tonight also; then you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve offspring through our father."
    35: So they made their father drink wine that night also; and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
    36: Thus both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father.
    37: The first-born bore a son, and called his name Moab; he is the father of the Moabites to this day.
    38: The younger also bore a son, and called his name Ben-ammi; he is the father of the Ammonites to this day.

  Chapter 20.

    1: From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in Gerar.
    2: And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, "She is my sister." And Abim'elech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.
    3: But God came to Abim'elech in a dream by night, and said to him, "Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken; for she is a man's wife."
    4: Now Abim'elech had not approached her; so he said, "Lord, wilt thou slay an innocent people?
    5: Did he not himself say to me, `She is my sister'? And she herself said, `He is my brother.' In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this."
    6: Then God said to him in the dream, "Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me; therefore I did not let you touch her.
    7: Now then restore the man's wife; for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you shall live. But if you do not restore her, know that you shall surely die, you, and all that are yours."
    8: So Abim'elech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told them all these things; and the men were very much afraid.
    9: Then Abim'elech called Abraham, and said to him, "What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done."
    10: And Abim'elech said to Abraham, "What were you thinking of, that you did this thing?"
    11: Abraham said, "I did it because I thought, There is no fear of God at all in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.
    12: Besides she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
    13: And when God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, `This is the kindness you must do me: at every place to which we come, say of me, He is my brother.'"
    14: Then Abim'elech took sheep and oxen, and male and female slaves, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah his wife to him.
    15: And Abim'elech said, "Behold, my land is before you; dwell where it pleases you."
    16: To Sarah he said, "Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver; it is your vindication in the eyes of all who are with you; and before every one you are righted."
    17: Then Abraham prayed to God; and God healed Abim'elech, and also healed his wife and female slaves so that they bore children.
    18: For the LORD had closed all the wombs of the house of Abim'elech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.

End of day 5.