Day 133:

Reading Job, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God, and turned away from evil.
    2: There were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
    3: He had seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she-asses, and very many servants; so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east.
    4: His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each on his day; and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them.
    5: And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and sanctify them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all; for Job said, "It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts." Thus Job did continually.
    6: Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan also came among them.
    7: The LORD said to Satan, "Whence have you come?" Satan answered the LORD, "From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it."
    8: And the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil?"
    9: Then Satan answered the LORD, "Does Job fear God for nought?
    10: Hast thou not put a hedge about him and his house and all that he has, on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land.
    11: But put forth thy hand now, and touch all that he has, and he will curse thee to thy face."
    12: And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, all that he has is in your power; only upon himself do not put forth your hand." So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD.
    13: Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house;
    14: and there came a messenger to Job, and said, "The oxen were plowing and the asses feeding beside them;
    15: and the Sabe'ans fell upon them and took them, and slew the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you."
    16: While he was yet speaking, there came another, and said, "The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants, and consumed them; and I alone have escaped to tell you."
    17: While he was yet speaking, there came another, and said, "The Chalde'ans formed three companies, and made a raid upon the camels and took them, and slew the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you."
    18: While he was yet speaking, there came another, and said, "Your sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house;
    19: and behold, a great wind came across the wilderness, and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young people, and they are dead; and I alone have escaped to tell you."
    20: Then Job arose, and rent his robe, and shaved his head, and fell upon the ground, and worshiped.
    21: And he said, "Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return; the LORD gave, and the LORD has taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD."
    22: In all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong.

  Chapter 2.

    1: Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan also came among them to present himself before the LORD.
    2: And the LORD said to Satan, "Whence have you come?" Satan answered the LORD, "From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it."
    3: And the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still holds fast his integrity, although you moved me against him, to destroy him without cause."
    4: Then Satan answered the LORD, "Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life.
    5: But put forth thy hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face."
    6: And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, he is in your power; only spare his life."
    7: So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD, and afflicted Job with loathsome sores from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
    8: And he took a potsherd with which to scrape himself, and sat among the ashes.
    9: Then his wife said to him, "Do you still hold fast your integrity? Curse God, and die."
    10: But he said to her, "You speak as one of the foolish women would speak. Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil?" In all this Job did not sin with his lips.
    11: Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came each from his own place, Eli'phaz the Te'manite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Na'amathite. They made an appointment together to come to condole with him and comfort him.
    12: And when they saw him from afar, they did not recognize him; and they raised their voices and wept; and they rent their robes and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven.
    13: And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his suffering was very great.

  Chapter 3.

    1: After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth.
    2: And Job said:
    3: "Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night which said, `A man-child is conceived.'
    4: Let that day be darkness! May God above not seek it, nor light shine upon it.
    5: Let gloom and deep darkness claim it. Let clouds dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.
    6: That night -- let thick darkness seize it! let it not rejoice among the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months.
    7: Yea, let that night be barren; let no joyful cry be heard in it.
    8: Let those curse it who curse the day, who are skilled to rouse up Levi'athan.
    9: Let the stars of its dawn be dark; let it hope for light, but have none, nor see the eyelids of the morning;
    10: because it did not shut the doors of my mother's womb, nor hide trouble from my eyes.
    11: "Why did I not die at birth, come forth from the womb and expire?
    12: Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should suck?
    13: For then I should have lain down and been quiet; I should have slept; then I should have been at rest,
    14: with kings and counselors of the earth who rebuilt ruins for themselves,
    15: or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver.
    16: Or why was I not as a hidden untimely birth, as infants that never see the light?
    17: There the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary are at rest.
    18: There the prisoners are at ease together; they hear not the voice of the taskmaster.
    19: The small and the great are there, and the slave is free from his master.
    20: "Why is light given to him that is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul,
    21: who long for death, but it comes not, and dig for it more than for hid treasures;
    22: who rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they find the grave?
    23: Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, whom God has hedged in?
    24: For my sighing comes as my bread, and my groanings are poured out like water.
    25: For the thing that I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me.
    26: I am not at ease, nor am I quiet; I have no rest; but trouble comes."

  Chapter 4.

    1: Then Eli'phaz the Te'manite answered:
    2: "If one ventures a word with you, will you be offended? Yet who can keep from speaking?
    3: Behold, you have instructed many, and you have strengthened the weak hands.
    4: Your words have upheld him who was stumbling, and you have made firm the feeble knees.
    5: But now it has come to you, and you are impatient; it touches you, and you are dismayed.
    6: Is not your fear of God your confidence, and the integrity of your ways your hope?
    7: "Think now, who that was innocent ever perished? Or where were the upright cut off?
    8: As I have seen, those who plow iniquity and sow trouble reap the same.
    9: By the breath of God they perish, and by the blast of his anger they are consumed.
    10: The roar of the lion, the voice of the fierce lion, the teeth of the young lions, are broken.
    11: The strong lion perishes for lack of prey, and the whelps of the lioness are scattered.
    12: "Now a word was brought to me stealthily, my ear received the whisper of it.
    13: Amid thoughts from visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on men,
    14: dread came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones shake.
    15: A spirit glided past my face; the hair of my flesh stood up.
    16: It stood still, but I could not discern its appearance. A form was before my eyes; there was silence, then I heard a voice:
    17: `Can mortal man be righteous before God? Can a man be pure before his Maker?
    18: Even in his servants he puts no trust, and his angels he charges with error;
    19: how much more those who dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed before the moth.
    20: Between morning and evening they are destroyed; they perish for ever without any regarding it.
    21: If their tent-cord is plucked up within them, do they not die, and that without wisdom?'

End of day 133.