Day 36:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: When the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who dwelt in the Negeb, heard that Israel was coming by the way of Atharim, he fought against Israel, and took some of them captive.
    2: And Israel vowed a vow to the LORD, and said, "If thou wilt indeed give this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities."
    3: And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and gave over the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities; so the name of the place was called Hormah.
    4: From Mount Hor they set out by the way to the Red Sea, to go around the land of Edom; and the people became impatient on the way.
    5: And the people spoke against God and against Moses, "Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no food and no water, and we loathe this worthless food."
    6: Then the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, so that many people of Israel died.
    7: And the people came to Moses, and said, "We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD and against you; pray to the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us." So Moses prayed for the people.
    8: And the LORD said to Moses, "Make a fiery serpent, and set it on a pole; and every one who is bitten, when he sees it, shall live."
    9: So Moses made a bronze serpent, and set it on a pole; and if a serpent bit any man, he would look at the bronze serpent and live.
    10: And the people of Israel set out, and encamped in Oboth.
    11: And they set out from Oboth, and encamped at I'ye-ab'arim, in the wilderness which is opposite Moab, toward the sunrise.
    12: From there they set out, and encamped in the Valley of Zered.
    13: From there they set out, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness, that extends from the boundary of the Amorites; for the Arnon is the boundary of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
    14: Wherefore it is said in the Book of the Wars of the LORD, "Waheb in Suphah, and the valleys of the Arnon,
    15: and the slope of the valleys that extends to the seat of Ar, and leans to the border of Moab."
    16: And from there they continued to Beer; that is the well of which the LORD said to Moses, "Gather the people together, and I will give them water."
    17: Then Israel sang this song: "Spring up, O well! -- Sing to it! --
    18: the well which the princes dug, which the nobles of the people delved with the scepter and with their staves."
    19: and from Mat'tanah to Nahal'iel, and from Nahal'iel to Bamoth,
    20: and from Bamoth to the valley lying in the region of Moab by the top of Pisgah which looks down upon the desert.
    21: Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
    22: "Let me pass through your land; we will not turn aside into field or vineyard; we will not drink the water of a well; we will go by the King's Highway, until we have passed through your territory."
    23: But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his territory. He gathered all his men together, and went out against Israel to the wilderness, and came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
    24: And Israel slew him with the edge of the sword, and took possession of his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, as far as to the Ammonites; for Jazer was the boundary of the Ammonites.
    25: And Israel took all these cities, and Israel settled in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all its villages.
    26: For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and taken all his land out of his hand, as far as the Arnon.
    27: Therefore the ballad singers say, "Come to Heshbon, let it be built, let the city of Sihon be established.
    28: For fire went forth from Heshbon, flame from the city of Sihon. It devoured Ar of Moab, the lords of the heights of the Arnon.
    29: Woe to you, O Moab! You are undone, O people of Chemosh! He has made his sons fugitives, and his daughters captives, to an Amorite king, Sihon.
    30: So their posterity perished from Heshbon, as far as Dibon, and we laid waste until fire spread to Med'eba."
    31: Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
    32: And Moses sent to spy out Jazer; and they took its villages, and dispossessed the Amorites that were there.
    33: Then they turned and went up by the way to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan came out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Ed're-i.
    34: But the LORD said to Moses, "Do not fear him; for I have given him into your hand, and all his people, and his land; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon."
    35: So they slew him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was not one survivor left to him; and they possessed his land.

  Chapter 22.

    1: Then the people of Israel set out, and encamped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho.
    2: And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
    3: And Moab was in great dread of the people, because they were many; Moab was overcome with fear of the people of Israel.
    4: And Moab said to the elders of Mid'ian, "This horde will now lick up all that is round about us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field." So Balak the son of Zippor, who was king of Moab at that time,
    5: sent messengers to Balaam the son of Be'or at Pethor, which is near the River, in the land of Amaw to call him, saying, "Behold, a people has come out of Egypt; they cover the face of the earth, and they are dwelling opposite me.
    6: Come now, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty for me; perhaps I shall be able to defeat them and drive them from the land; for I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed."
    7: So the elders of Moab and the elders of Mid'ian departed with the fees for divination in their hand; and they came to Balaam, and gave him Balak's message.
    8: And he said to them, "Lodge here this night, and I will bring back word to you, as the LORD speaks to me"; so the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam.
    9: And God came to Balaam and said, "Who are these men with you?"
    10: And Balaam said to God, "Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying,
    11: `Behold, a people has come out of Egypt, and it covers the face of the earth; now come, curse them for me; perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out.'"
    12: God said to Balaam, "You shall not go with them; you shall not curse the people, for they are blessed."
    13: So Balaam rose in the morning, and said to the princes of Balak, "Go to your own land; for the LORD has refused to let me go with you."
    14: So the princes of Moab rose and went to Balak, and said, "Balaam refuses to come with us."
    15: Once again Balak sent princes, more in number and more honorable than they.
    16: And they came to Balaam and said to him, "Thus says Balak the son of Zippor: `Let nothing hinder you from coming to me;
    17: for I will surely do you great honor, and whatever you say to me I will do; come, curse this people for me.'"
    18: But Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, "Though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the command of the LORD my God, to do less or more.
    19: Pray, now, tarry here this night also, that I may know what more the LORD will say to me."
    20: And God came to Balaam at night and said to him, "If the men have come to call you, rise, go with them; but only what I bid you, that shall you do."
    21: So Balaam rose in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab.
    22: But God's anger was kindled because he went; and the angel of the LORD took his stand in the way as his adversary. Now he was riding on the ass, and his two servants were with him.
    23: And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the road, with a drawn sword in his hand; and the ass turned aside out of the road, and went into the field; and Balaam struck the ass, to turn her into the road.
    24: Then the angel of the LORD stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on either side.
    25: And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she pushed against the wall, and pressed Balaam's foot against the wall; so he struck her again.
    26: Then the angel of the LORD went ahead, and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right or to the left.
    27: When the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she lay down under Balaam; and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he struck the ass with his staff.
    28: Then the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said to Balaam, "What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?"
    29: And Balaam said to the ass, "Because you have made sport of me. I wish I had a sword in my hand, for then I would kill you."
    30: And the ass said to Balaam, "Am I not your ass, upon which you have ridden all your life long to this day? Was I ever accustomed to do so to you?" And he said, "No."
    31: Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, with his drawn sword in his hand; and he bowed his head, and fell on his face.
    32: And the angel of the LORD said to him, "Why have you struck your ass these three times? Behold, I have come forth to withstand you, because your way is perverse before me;
    33: and the ass saw me, and turned aside before me these three times. If she had not turned aside from me, surely just now I would have slain you and let her live."
    34: Then Balaam said to the angel of the LORD, "I have sinned, for I did not know that thou didst stand in the road against me. Now therefore, if it is evil in thy sight, I will go back again."
    35: And the angel of the LORD said to Balaam, "Go with the men; but only the word which I bid you, that shall you speak." So Balaam went on with the princes of Balak.
    36: When Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him at the city of Moab, on the boundary formed by the Arnon, at the extremity of the boundary.
    37: And Balak said to Balaam, "Did I not send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not able to honor you?"
    38: Balaam said to Balak, "Lo, I have come to you! Have I now any power at all to speak anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that must I speak."
    39: Then Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kir'iath-hu'zoth.
    40: And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam and to the princes who were with him.
    41: And on the morrow Balak took Balaam and brought him up to Bamoth-ba'al; and from there he saw the nearest of the people.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And Balaam said to Balak, "Build for me here seven altars, and provide for me here seven bulls and seven rams."
    2: Balak did as Balaam had said; and Balak and Balaam offered on each altar a bull and a ram.
    3: And Balaam said to Balak, "Stand beside your burnt offering, and I will go; perhaps the LORD will come to meet me; and whatever he shows me I will tell you." And he went to a bare height.
    4: And God met Balaam; and Balaam said to him, "I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered upon each altar a bull and a ram."
    5: And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, "Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak."
    6: And he returned to him, and lo, he and all the princes of Moab were standing beside his burnt offering.
    7: And Balaam took up his discourse, and said, "From Aram Balak has brought me, the king of Moab from the eastern mountains: `Come, curse Jacob for me, and come, denounce Israel!'
    8: How can I curse whom God has not cursed? How can I denounce whom the LORD has not denounced?
    9: For from the top of the mountains I see him, from the hills I behold him; lo, a people dwelling alone, and not reckoning itself among the nations!
    10: Who can count the dust of Jacob, or number the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my end be like his!"
    11: And Balak said to Balaam, "What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have done nothing but bless them."
    12: And he answered, "Must I not take heed to speak what the LORD puts in my mouth?"
    13: And Balak said to him, "Come with me to another place, from which you may see them; you shall see only the nearest of them, and shall not see them all; then curse them for me from there."
    14: And he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
    15: Balaam said to Balak, "Stand here beside your burnt offering, while I meet the LORD yonder."
    16: And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, "Return to Balak, and thus shall you speak."
    17: And he came to him, and, lo, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, "What has the LORD spoken?"
    18: And Balaam took up his discourse, and said, "Rise, Balak, and hear; hearken to me, O son of Zippor:
    19: God is not man, that he should lie, or a son of man, that he should repent. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not fulfil it?
    20: Behold, I received a command to bless: he has blessed, and I cannot revoke it.
    21: He has not beheld misfortune in Jacob; nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The LORD their God is with them, and the shout of a king is among them.
    22: God brings them out of Egypt; they have as it were the horns of the wild ox.
    23: For there is no enchantment against Jacob, no divination against Israel; now it shall be said of Jacob and Israel, `What has God wrought!'
    24: Behold, a people! As a lioness it rises up and as a lion it lifts itself; it does not lie down till it devours the prey, and drinks the blood of the slain."
    25: And Balak said to Balaam, "Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all."
    26: But Balaam answered Balak, "Did I not tell you, `All that the LORD says, that I must do'?"
    27: And Balak said to Balaam, "Come now, I will take you to another place; perhaps it will please God that you may curse them for me from there."
    28: So Balak took Balaam to the top of Pe'or, that overlooks the desert.
    29: And Balaam said to Balak, "Build for me here seven altars, and provide for me here seven bulls and seven rams."
    30: And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.

  Chapter 24.

    1: When Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he did not go, as at other times, to look for omens, but set his face toward the wilderness.
    2: And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and saw Israel encamping tribe by tribe. And the Spirit of God came upon him,
    3: and he took up his discourse, and said, "The oracle of Balaam the son of Be'or, the oracle of the man whose eye is opened,
    4: the oracle of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, but having his eyes uncovered:
    5: how fair are your tents, O Jacob, your encampments, O Israel!
    6: Like valleys that stretch afar, like gardens beside a river, like aloes that the LORD has planted, like cedar trees beside the waters.
    7: Water shall flow from his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters, his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.
    8: God brings him out of Egypt; he has as it were the horns of the wild ox, he shall eat up the nations his adversaries, and shall break their bones in pieces, and pierce them through with his arrows.
    9: He couched, he lay down like a lion, and like a lioness; who will rouse him up? Blessed be every one who blesses you, and cursed be every one who curses you."
    10: And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, "I called you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them these three times.
    11: Therefore now flee to your place; I said, `I will certainly honor you,' but the LORD has held you back from honor."
    12: And Balaam said to Balak, "Did I not tell your messengers whom you sent to me,
    13: `If Balak should give me his house full of silver and gold, I would not be able to go beyond the word of the LORD, to do either good or bad of my own will; what the LORD speaks, that will I speak'?
    14: And now, behold, I am going to my people; come, I will let you know what this people will do to your people in the latter days."
    15: And he took up his discourse, and said, "The oracle of Balaam the son of Be'or, the oracle of the man whose eye is opened,
    16: the oracle of him who hears the words of God, and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, but having his eyes uncovered:
    17: I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not nigh: a star shall come forth out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel; it shall crush the forehead of Moab, and break down all the sons of Sheth.
    18: Edom shall be dispossessed, Se'ir also, his enemies, shall be dispossessed, while Israel does valiantly.
    19: By Jacob shall dominion be exercised, and the survivors of cities be destroyed!"
    20: Then he looked on Am'alek, and took up his discourse, and said, "Am'alek was the first of the nations, but in the end he shall come to destruction."
    21: And he looked on the Ken'ite, and took up his discourse, and said, "Enduring is your dwelling place, and your nest is set in the rock;
    22: nevertheless Kain shall be wasted. How long shall Asshur take you away captive?"
    23: And he took up his discourse, and said, "Alas, who shall live when God does this?
    24: But ships shall come from Kittim and shall afflict Asshur and Eber; and he also shall come to destruction."
    25: Then Balaam rose, and went back to his place; and Balak also went his way.

End of day 36.