Day 37:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: While Israel dwelt in Shittim the people began to play the harlot with the daughters of Moab.
    2: These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate, and bowed down to their gods.
    3: So Israel yoked himself to Ba'al of Pe'or. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel;
    4: and the LORD said to Moses, "Take all the chiefs of the people, and hang them in the sun before the LORD, that the fierce anger of the LORD may turn away from Israel."
    5: And Moses said to the judges of Israel, "Every one of you slay his men who have yoked themselves to Ba'al of Pe'or."
    6: And behold, one of the people of Israel came and brought a Mid'ianite woman to his family, in the sight of Moses and in the sight of the whole congregation of the people of Israel, while they were weeping at the door of the tent of meeting.
    7: When Phin'ehas the son of Elea'zar, son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose and left the congregation, and took a spear in his hand
    8: and went after the man of Israel into the inner room, and pierced both of them, the man of Israel and the woman, through her body. Thus the plague was stayed from the people of Israel.
    9: Nevertheless those that died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.
    10: And the LORD said to Moses,
    11: "Phin'ehas the son of Elea'zar, son of Aaron the priest, has turned back my wrath from the people of Israel, in that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I did not consume the people of Israel in my jealousy.
    12: Therefore say, `Behold, I give to him my covenant of peace;
    13: and it shall be to him, and to his descendants after him, the covenant of a perpetual priesthood, because he was jealous for his God, and made atonement for the people of Israel.'"
    14: The name of the slain man of Israel, who was slain with the Mid'ianite woman, was Zimri the son of Salu, head of a fathers' house belonging to the Simeonites.
    15: And the name of the Mid'ianite woman who was slain was Cozbi the daughter of Zur, who was the head of the people of a fathers' house in Mid'ian.
    16: And the LORD said to Moses,
    17: "Harass the Mid'ianites, and smite them;
    18: for they have harassed you with their wiles, with which they beguiled you in the matter of Pe'or, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of the prince of Mid'ian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the plague on account of Pe'or."

  Chapter 26.

    1: After the plague the LORD said to Moses and to Elea'zar the son of Aaron, the priest,
    2: "Take a census of all the congregation of the people of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers' houses, all in Israel who are able to go forth to war."
    3: And Moses and Elea'zar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
    4: "Take a census of the people, from twenty years old and upward," as the LORD commanded Moses. The people of Israel, who came forth out of the land of Egypt, were:
    5: Reuben, the first-born of Israel; the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Ha'nochites; of Pallu, the family of the Pal'luites;
    6: of Hezron, the family of the Hez'ronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
    7: These are the families of the Reubenites; and their number was forty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty.
    8: And the sons of Pallu: Eli'ab.
    9: The sons of Eli'ab: Nem'uel, Dathan, and Abi'ram. These are the Dathan and Abi'ram, chosen from the congregation, who contended against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah, when they contended against the LORD,
    10: and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, when the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men; and they became a warning.
    11: Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah did not die.
    12: The sons of Simeon according to their families: of Nem'uel, the family of the Nem'uelites; of Jamin, the family of the Ja'minites; of Jachin, the family of the Ja'chinites;
    13: of Zerah, the family of the Zer'ahites; of Sha'ul, the family of the Sha'ulites.
    14: These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred.
    15: The sons of Gad according to their families: of Zephon, the family of the Ze'phonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
    16: of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;
    17: of Ar'od, the family of the Ar'odites; of Are'li, the family of the Are'lites.
    18: These are the families of the sons of Gad according to their number, forty thousand five hundred.
    19: The sons of Judah were Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
    20: And the sons of Judah according to their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shela'nites; of Perez, the family of the Per'ezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zer'ahites.
    21: And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hez'ronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamu'lites.
    22: These are the families of Judah according to their number, seventy-six thousand five hundred.
    23: The sons of Is'sachar according to their families: of Tola, the family of the To'laites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites;
    24: of Jashub, the family of the Jash'ubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shim'ronites.
    25: These are the families of Is'sachar according to their number, sixty-four thousand three hundred.
    26: The sons of Zeb'ulun, according to their families: of Sered, the family of the Ser'edites; of Elon, the family of the E'lonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jah'leelites.
    27: These are the families of the Zeb'ulunites according to their number, sixty thousand five hundred.
    28: The sons of Joseph according to their families: Manas'seh and E'phraim.
    29: The sons of Manas'seh: of Machir, the family of the Ma'chirites; and Machir was the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites.
    30: These are the sons of Gilead: of Ie'zer, the family of the Ie'zerites; of Helek, the family of the He'lekites;
    31: and of As'riel, the family of the As'rielites; and of Shechem, the family of the She'chemites;
    32: and of Shemi'da, the family of the Shemi'daites; and of Hepher, the family of the He'pherites.
    33: Now Zeloph'ehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zeloph'ehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
    34: These are the families of Manas'seh; and their number was fifty-two thousand seven hundred.
    35: These are the sons of E'phraim according to their families: of Shuthe'lah, the family of the Shuthe'lahites; of Becher, the family of the Bech'erites; of Tahan, the family of the Ta'hanites.
    36: And these are the sons of Shuthe'lah: of Eran, the family of the E'ranites.
    37: These are the families of the sons of E'phraim according to their number, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph according to their families.
    38: The sons of Benjamin according to their families: of Bela, the family of the Be'la-ites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ash'belites; of Ahi'ram, the family of the Ahi'ramites;
    39: of Shephu'pham, the family of the Shu'phamites; of Hupham, the family of the Hu'phamites.
    40: And the sons of Bela were Ard and Na'aman: of Ard, the family of the Ard'ites; of Na'aman, the family of the Na'amites.
    41: These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families; and their number was forty-five thousand six hundred.
    42: These are the sons of Dan according to their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shu'hamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families.
    43: All the families of the Shu'hamites, according to their number, were sixty-four thousand four hundred.
    44: The sons of Asher according to their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beri'ah, the family of the Beri'ites.
    45: Of the sons of Beri'ah: of Heber, the family of the He'berites; of Mal'chi-el, the family of the Mal'chi-elites.
    46: And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
    47: These are the families of the sons of Asher according to their number, fifty-three thousand four hundred.
    48: The sons of Naph'tali according to their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jah'zeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;
    49: of Jezer, the family of the Je'zerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shil'lemites.
    50: These are the families of Naph'tali according to their families; and their number was forty-five thousand four hundred.
    51: This was the number of the people of Israel, six hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty.
    52: The LORD said to Moses:
    53: "To these the land shall be divided for inheritance according to the number of names.
    54: To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance; every tribe shall be given its inheritance according to its numbers.
    55: But the land shall be divided by lot; according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
    56: Their inheritance shall be divided according to lot between the larger and the smaller."
    57: These are the Levites as numbered according to their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Ko'hathites; of Merar'i, the family of the Merar'ites.
    58: These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the He'bronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Ko'rahites. And Kohath was the father of Amram.
    59: The name of Amram's wife was Joch'ebed the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses and Miriam their sister.
    60: And to Aaron were born Nadab, Abi'hu, Elea'zar and Ith'amar.
    61: But Nadab and Abi'hu died when they offered unholy fire before the LORD.
    62: And those numbered of them were twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward; for they were not numbered among the people of Israel, because there was no inheritance given to them among the people of Israel.
    63: These were those numbered by Moses and Elea'zar the priest, who numbered the people of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
    64: But among these there was not a man of those numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who had numbered the people of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
    65: For the LORD had said of them, "They shall die in the wilderness." There was not left a man of them, except Caleb the son of Jephun'neh and Joshua the son of Nun.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Then drew near the daughters of Zeloph'ehad the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manas'seh, from the families of Manas'seh the son of Joseph. The names of his daughters were: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
    2: And they stood before Moses, and before Elea'zar the priest, and before the leaders and all the congregation, at the door of the tent of meeting, saying,
    3: "Our father died in the wilderness; he was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah, but died for his own sin; and he had no sons.
    4: Why should the name of our father be taken away from his family, because he had no son? Give to us a possession among our father's brethren."
    5: Moses brought their case before the LORD.
    6: And the LORD said to Moses,
    7: "The daughters of Zeloph'ehad are right; you shall give them possession of an inheritance among their father's brethren and cause the inheritance of their father to pass to them.
    8: And you shall say to the people of Israel, 'If a man dies, and has no son, then you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter.
    9: And if he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.
    10: And if he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father's brothers.
    11: And if his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his kinsman that is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it. And it shall be to the people of Israel a statute and ordinance, as the LORD commanded Moses.'"
    12: The LORD said to Moses, "Go up into this mountain of Ab'arim, and see the land which I have given to the people of Israel.
    13: And when you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as your brother Aaron was gathered,
    14: because you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin during the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the waters before their eyes." (These are the waters of Mer'ibah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)
    15: Moses said to the LORD,
    16: "Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation,
    17: who shall go out before them and come in before them, who shall lead them out and bring them in; that the congregation of the LORD may not be as sheep which have no shepherd."
    18: And the LORD said to Moses, "Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit, and lay your hand upon him;
    19: cause him to stand before Elea'zar the priest and all the congregation, and you shall commission him in their sight.
    20: You shall invest him with some of your authority, that all the congregation of the people of Israel may obey.
    21: And he shall stand before Elea'zar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before the LORD; at his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he and all the people of Israel with him, the whole congregation."
    22: And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; he took Joshua and caused him to stand before Elea'zar the priest and the whole congregation,
    23: and he laid his hands upon him, and commissioned him as the LORD directed through Moses.

  Chapter 28.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Command the people of Israel, and say to them, 'My offering, my food for my offerings by fire, my pleasing odor, you shall take heed to offer to me in its due season.'
    3: And you shall say to them, This is the offering by fire which you shall offer to the LORD: two male lambs a year old without blemish, day by day, as a continual offering.
    4: The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer in the evening;
    5: also a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil.
    6: It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained at Mount Sinai for a pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the LORD.
    7: Its drink offering shall be a fourth of a hin for each lamb; in the holy place you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to the LORD.
    8: The other lamb you shall offer in the evening; like the cereal offering of the morning, and like its drink offering, you shall offer it as an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD.
    9: "On the sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering:
    10: this is the burnt offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
    11: "At the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
    12: also three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenths of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
    13: and a tenth of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering for every lamb; for a burnt offering of pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the LORD.
    14: Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, a third of a hin for a ram, and a fourth of a hin for a lamb; this is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year.
    15: Also one male goat for a sin offering to the LORD; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
    16: "On the fourteenth day of the first month is the LORD's passover.
    17: And on the fifteenth day of this month is a feast; seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
    18: On the first day there shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no laborious work,
    19: but offer an offering by fire, a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; see that they are without blemish;
    20: also their cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil; three tenths of an ephah shall you offer for a bull, and two tenths for a ram;
    21: a tenth shall you offer for each of the seven lambs;
    22: also one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.
    23: You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
    24: In the same way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
    25: And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work.
    26: "On the day of the first fruits, when you offer a cereal offering of new grain to the LORD at your feast of weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no laborious work,
    27: but offer a burnt offering, a pleasing odor to the LORD; two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
    28: also their cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bull, two tenths for one ram,
    29: a tenth for each of the seven lambs;
    30: with one male goat, to make atonement for you.
    31: Besides the continual burnt offering and its cereal offering, you shall offer them and their drink offering. See that they are without blemish.

End of day 37.