Day 307:

Reading Acts, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the first book, O The-oph'ilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach,
    2: until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commandment through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen.
    3: To them he presented himself alive after his passion by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days, and speaking of the kingdom of God.
    4: And while staying with them he charged them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, "you heard from me,
    5: for John baptized with water, but before many days you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit."
    6: So when they had come together, they asked him, "Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?"
    7: He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has fixed by his own authority.
    8: But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Sama'ria and to the end of the earth."
    9: And when he had said this, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight.
    10: And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes,
    11: and said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven."
    12: Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a sabbath day's journey away;
    13: and when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were staying, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the son of James.
    14: All these with one accord devoted themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.
    15: In those days Peter stood up among the brethren (the company of persons was in all about a hundred and twenty), and said,
    16: "Brethren, the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David, concerning Judas who was guide to those who arrested Jesus.
    17: For he was numbered among us, and was allotted his share in this ministry.
    18: (Now this man bought a field with the reward of his wickedness; and falling headlong he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
    19: And it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their language Akel'dama, that is, Field of Blood.)
    20: For it is written in the book of Psalms, `Let his habitation become desolate, and let there be no one to live in it'; and `His office let another take.'
    21: So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
    22: beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us -- one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection."
    23: And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsab'bas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthi'as.
    24: And they prayed and said, "Lord, who knowest the hearts of all men, show which one of these two thou hast chosen
    25: to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside, to go to his own place."
    26: And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthi'as; and he was enrolled with the eleven apostles.

  Chapter 2.

    1: When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place.
    2: And suddenly a sound came from heaven like the rush of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
    3: And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributed and resting on each one of them.
    4: And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
    5: Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.
    6: And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one heard them speaking in his own language.
    7: And they were amazed and wondered, saying, "Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
    8: And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language?
    9: Par'thians and Medes and E'lamites and residents of Mesopota'mia, Judea and Cappado'cia, Pontus and Asia,
    10: Phryg'ia and Pamphyl'ia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyre'ne, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
    11: Cretans and Arabians, we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God."
    12: And all were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, "What does this mean?"
    13: But others mocking said, "They are filled with new wine."
    14: But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them, "Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
    15: For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day;
    16: but this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel:
    17: `And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams;
    18: yea, and on my menservants and my maidservants in those days I will pour out my Spirit; and they shall prophesy.
    19: And I will show wonders in the heaven above and signs on the earth beneath, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke;
    20: the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great and manifest day.
    21: And it shall be that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.'
    22: "Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know --
    23: this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men.
    24: But God raised him up, having loosed the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.
    25: For David says concerning him, `I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken;
    26: therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; moreover my flesh will dwell in hope.
    27: For thou wilt not abandon my soul to Hades, nor let thy Holy One see corruption.
    28: Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou wilt make me full of gladness with thy presence.'
    29: "Brethren, I may say to you confidently of the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
    30: Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants upon his throne,
    31: he foresaw and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.
    32: This Jesus God raised up, and of that we all are witnesses.
    33: Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this which you see and hear.
    34: For David did not ascend into the heavens; but he himself says, `The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
    35: till I make thy enemies a stool for thy feet.'
    36: Let all the house of Israel therefore know assuredly that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified."
    37: Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brethren, what shall we do?"
    38: And Peter said to them, "Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
    39: For the promise is to you and to your children and to all that are far off, every one whom the Lord our God calls to him."
    40: And he testified with many other words and exhorted them, saying, "Save yourselves from this crooked generation."
    41: So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
    42: And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.
    43: And fear came upon every soul; and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles.
    44: And all who believed were together and had all things in common;
    45: and they sold their possessions and goods and distributed them to all, as any had need.
    46: And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they partook of food with glad and generous hearts,
    47: praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
    2: And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at that gate of the temple which is called Beautiful to ask alms of those who entered the temple.
    3: Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked for alms.
    4: And Peter directed his gaze at him, with John, and said, "Look at us."
    5: And he fixed his attention upon them, expecting to receive something from them.
    6: But Peter said, "I have no silver and gold, but I give you what I have; in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk."
    7: And he took him by the right hand and raised him up; and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong.
    8: And leaping up he stood and walked and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God.
    9: And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
    10: and recognized him as the one who sat for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
    11: While he clung to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico called Solomon's, astounded.
    12: And when Peter saw it he addressed the people, "Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we had made him walk?
    13: The God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release him.
    14: But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
    15: and killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses.
    16: And his name, by faith in his name, has made this man strong whom you see and know; and the faith which is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all.
    17: "And now, brethren, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
    18: But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer, he thus fulfilled.
    19: Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord,
    20: and that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus,
    21: whom heaven must receive until the time for establishing all that God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old.
    22: Moses said, `The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet from your brethren as he raised me up. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you.
    23: And it shall be that every soul that does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people.'
    24: And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came afterwards, also proclaimed these days.
    25: You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God gave to your fathers, saying to Abraham, `And in your posterity shall all the families of the earth be blessed.'
    26: God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you in turning every one of you from your wickedness."

  Chapter 4.

    1: And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sad'ducees came upon them,
    2: annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
    3: And they arrested them and put them in custody until the morrow, for it was already evening.
    4: But many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of the men came to about five thousand.
    5: On the morrow their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem,
    6: with Annas the high priest and Ca'iaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high-priestly family.
    7: And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, "By what power or by what name did you do this?"
    8: Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders,
    9: if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a cripple, by what means this man has been healed,
    10: be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well.
    11: This is the stone which was rejected by you builders, but which has become the head of the corner.
    12: And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved."
    13: Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated, common men, they wondered; and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
    14: But seeing the man that had been healed standing beside them, they had nothing to say in opposition.
    15: But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred with one another,
    16: saying, "What shall we do with these men? For that a notable sign has been performed through them is manifest to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
    17: But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to any one in this name."
    18: So they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
    19: But Peter and John answered them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge;
    20: for we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard."
    21: And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, because of the people; for all men praised God for what had happened.
    22: For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
    23: When they were released they went to their friends and reported what the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
    24: And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to God and said, "Sovereign Lord, who didst make the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them,
    25: who by the mouth of our father David, thy servant, didst say by the Holy Spirit, `Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples imagine vain things?
    26: The kings of the earth set themselves in array, and the rulers were gathered together, against the Lord and against his Anointed' --
    27: for truly in this city there were gathered together against thy holy servant Jesus, whom thou didst anoint, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,
    28: to do whatever thy hand and thy plan had predestined to take place.
    29: And now, Lord, look upon their threats, and grant to thy servants to speak thy word with all boldness,
    30: while thou stretchest out thy hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of thy holy servant Jesus."
    31: And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with boldness.
    32: Now the company of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had everything in common.
    33: And with great power the apostles gave their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
    34: There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of what was sold
    35: and laid it at the apostles' feet; and distribution was made to each as any had need.
    36: Thus Joseph who was surnamed by the apostles Barnabas (which means, Son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
    37: sold a field which belonged to him, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.

End of day 307.