Day 3:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth.
    2: The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the air, upon everything that creeps on the ground and all the fish of the sea; into your hand they are delivered.
    3: Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you; and as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything.
    4: Only you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.
    5: For your lifeblood I will surely require a reckoning; of every beast I will require it and of man; of every man's brother I will require the life of man.
    6: Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed; for God made man in his own image.
    7: And you, be fruitful and multiply, bring forth abundantly on the earth and multiply in it."
    8: Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him,
    9: "Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your descendants after you,
    10: and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark.
    11: I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth."
    12: And God said, "This is the sign of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all future generations:
    13: I set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.
    14: When I bring clouds over the earth and the bow is seen in the clouds,
    15: I will remember my covenant which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh.
    16: When the bow is in the clouds, I will look upon it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth."
    17: God said to Noah, "This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth."
    18: The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan.
    19: These three were the sons of Noah; and from these the whole earth was peopled.
    20: Noah was the first tiller of the soil. He planted a vineyard;
    21: and he drank of the wine, and became drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent.
    22: And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside.
    23: Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it upon both their shoulders, and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father; their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father's nakedness.
    24: When Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him,
    25: he said, "Cursed be Canaan; a slave of slaves shall he be to his brothers."
    26: He also said, "Blessed by the LORD my God be Shem; and let Canaan be his slave."
    27: God enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem; and let Canaan be his slave."
    28: After the flood Noah lived three hundred and fifty years.
    29: All the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years; and he died.

  Chapter 10.

    1: These are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth; sons were born to them after the flood.
    2: The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
    3: The sons of Gomer: Ash'kenaz, Riphath, and Togar'mah.
    4: The sons of Javan: Eli'shah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Do'danim.
    5: From these the coastland peoples spread. These are the sons of Japheth in their lands, each with his own language, by their families, in their nations.
    6: The sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
    7: The sons of Cush: Seba, Hav'ilah, Sabtah, Ra'amah, and Sab'teca. The sons of Ra'amah: Sheba and Dedan.
    8: Cush became the father of Nimrod; he was the first on earth to be a mighty man.
    9: He was a mighty hunter before the LORD; therefore it is said, "Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before the LORD."
    10: The beginning of his kingdom was Ba'bel, Erech, and Accad, all of them in the land of Shinar.
    11: From that land he went into Assyria, and built Nin'eveh, Reho'both-Ir, Calah, and
    12: Resen between Nin'eveh and Calah; that is the great city.
    13: Egypt became the father of Ludim, An'amim, Leha'bim, Naph-tu'him,
    14: Pathru'sim, Caslu'him (whence came the Philistines), and Caph'torim.
    15: Canaan became the father of Sidon his first-born, and Heth,
    16: and the Jeb'usites, the Amorites, the Gir'gashites,
    17: the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
    18: the Ar'vadites, the Zem'arites, and the Ha'mathites. Afterward the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
    19: And the territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon, in the direction of Gerar, as far as Gaza, and in the direction of Sodom, Gomor'rah, Admah, and Zeboi'im, as far as Lasha.
    20: These are the sons of Ham, by their families, their languages, their lands, and their nations.
    21: To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born.
    22: The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpach'shad, Lud, and Aram.
    23: The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.
    24: Arpach'shad became the father of Shelah; and Shelah became the father of Eber.
    25: To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Joktan.
    26: Joktan became the father of Almo'dad, Sheleph, Hazarma'veth, Jerah,
    27: Hador'am, Uzal, Diklah,
    28: Obal, Abim'a-el, Sheba,
    29: Ophir, Hav'ilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
    30: The territory in which they lived extended from Mesha in the direction of Sephar to the hill country of the east.
    31: These are the sons of Shem, by their families, their languages, their lands, and their nations.
    32: These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies, in their nations; and from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now the whole earth had one language and few words.
    2: And as men migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there.
    3: And they said to one another, "Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly." And they had brick for stone, and bitumen for mortar.
    4: Then they said, "Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth."
    5: And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men had built.
    6: And the LORD said, "Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language; and this is only the beginning of what they will do; and nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them.
    7: Come, let us go down, and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another's speech."
    8: So the LORD scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city.
    9: Therefore its name was called Ba'bel, because there the LORD confused the language of all the earth; and from there the LORD scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth.
    10: These are the descendants of Shem. When Shem was a hundred years old, he became the father of Arpach'shad two years after the flood;
    11: and Shem lived after the birth of Arpach'shad five hundred years, and had other sons and daughters.
    12: When Arpach'shad had lived thirty-five years, he became the father of Shelah;
    13: and Arpach'shad lived after the birth of Shelah four hundred and three years, and had other sons and daughters.
    14: When Shelah had lived thirty years, he became the father of Eber;
    15: and Shelah lived after the birth of Eber four hundred and three years, and had other sons and daughters.
    16: When Eber had lived thirty-four years, he became the father of Peleg;
    17: and Eber lived after the birth of Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and had other sons and daughters.
    18: When Peleg had lived thirty years, he became the father of Re'u;
    19: and Peleg lived after the birth of Re'u two hundred and nine years, and had other sons and daughters.
    20: When Re'u had lived thirty-two years, he became the father of Serug;
    21: and Re'u lived after the birth of Serug two hundred and seven years, and had other sons and daughters.
    22: When Serug had lived thirty years, he became the father of Nahor;
    23: and Serug lived after the birth of Nahor two hundred years, and had other sons and daughters.
    24: When Nahor had lived twenty-nine years, he became the father of Terah;
    25: and Nahor lived after the birth of Terah a hundred and nineteen years, and had other sons and daughters.
    26: When Terah had lived seventy years, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
    27: Now these are the descendants of Terah. Terah was the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran was the father of Lot.
    28: Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chalde'ans.
    29: And Abram and Nahor took wives; the name of Abram's wife was Sar'ai, and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran the father of Milcah and Iscah.
    30: Now Sar'ai was barren; she had no child.
    31: Terah took Abram his son and Lot the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sar'ai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife, and they went forth together from Ur of the Chalde'ans to go into the land of Canaan; but when they came to Haran, they settled there.
    32: The days of Terah were two hundred and five years; and Terah died in Haran.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now the LORD said to Abram, "Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you.
    2: And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.
    3: I will bless those who bless you, and him who curses you I will curse; and by you all the families of the earth shall bless themselves."
    4: So Abram went, as the LORD had told him; and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran.
    5: And Abram took Sar'ai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions which they had gathered, and the persons that they had gotten in Haran; and they set forth to go to the land of Canaan. When they had come to the land of Canaan,
    6: Abram passed through the land to the place at Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. At that time the Canaanites were in the land.
    7: Then the LORD appeared to Abram, and said, "To your descendants I will give this land." So he built there an altar to the LORD, who had appeared to him.
    8: Thence he removed to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to the LORD and called on the name of the LORD.
    9: And Abram journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb.
    10: Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land.
    11: When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sar'ai his wife, "I know that you are a woman beautiful to behold;
    12: and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, `This is his wife'; then they will kill me, but they will let you live.
    13: Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared on your account."
    14: When Abram entered Egypt the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful.
    15: And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
    16: And for her sake he dealt well with Abram; and he had sheep, oxen, he-asses, menservants, maidservants, she-asses, and camels.
    17: But the LORD afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sar'ai, Abram's wife.
    18: So Pharaoh called Abram, and said, "What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?
    19: Why did you say, `She is my sister,' so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife, take her, and be gone."
    20: And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him; and they set him on the way, with his wife and all that he had.

End of day 3.