Day 148:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Hear a just cause, O LORD; attend to my cry! Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit!
    2: From thee let my vindication come! Let thy eyes see the right!
    3: If thou triest my heart, if thou visitest me by night, if thou testest me, thou wilt find no wickedness in me; my mouth does not transgress.
    4: With regard to the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have avoided the ways of the violent.
    5: My steps have held fast to thy paths, my feet have not slipped.
    6: I call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me, O God; incline thy ear to me, hear my words.
    7: Wondrously show thy steadfast love, O savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at thy right hand.
    8: Keep me as the apple of the eye; hide me in the shadow of thy wings,
    9: from the wicked who despoil me, my deadly enemies who surround me.
    10: They close their hearts to pity; with their mouths they speak arrogantly.
    11: They track me down; now they surround me; they set their eyes to cast me to the ground.
    12: They are like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush.
    13: Arise, O LORD! confront them, overthrow them! Deliver my life from the wicked by thy sword,
    14: from men by thy hand, O LORD, from men whose portion in life is of the world. May their belly be filled with what thou hast stored up for them; may their children have more than enough; may they leave something over to their babes.
    15: As for me, I shall behold thy face in righteousness; when I awake, I shall be satisfied with beholding thy form.

  Chapter 18.

    1: I love thee, O LORD, my strength.
    2: The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.
    3: I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
    4: The cords of death encompassed me, the torrents of perdition assailed me;
    5: the cords of Sheol entangled me, the snares of death confronted me.
    6: In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears.
    7: Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry.
    8: Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him.
    9: He bowed the heavens, and came down; thick darkness was under his feet.
    10: He rode on a cherub, and flew; he came swiftly upon the wings of the wind.
    11: He made darkness his covering around him, his canopy thick clouds dark with water.
    12: Out of the brightness before him there broke through his clouds hailstones and coals of fire.
    13: The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones and coals of fire.
    14: And he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; he flashed forth lightnings, and routed them.
    15: Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare, at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.
    16: He reached from on high, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.
    17: He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
    18: They came upon me in the day of my calamity; but the LORD was my stay.
    19: He brought me forth into a broad place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.
    20: The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he recompensed me.
    21: For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
    22: For all his ordinances were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me.
    23: I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from guilt.
    24: Therefore the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight.
    25: With the loyal thou dost show thyself loyal; with the blameless man thou dost show thyself blameless;
    26: with the pure thou dost show thyself pure; and with the crooked thou dost show thyself perverse.
    27: For thou dost deliver a humble people; but the haughty eyes thou dost bring down.
    28: Yea, thou dost light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness.
    29: Yea, by thee I can crush a troop; and by my God I can leap over a wall.
    30: This God -- his way is perfect; the promise of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him.
    31: For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God? --
    32: the God who girded me with strength, and made my way safe.
    33: He made my feet like hinds' feet, and set me secure on the heights.
    34: He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
    35: Thou hast given me the shield of thy salvation, and thy right hand supported me, and thy help made me great.
    36: Thou didst give a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip.
    37: I pursued my enemies and overtook them; and did not turn back till they were consumed.
    38: I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet.
    39: For thou didst gird me with strength for the battle; thou didst make my assailants sink under me.
    40: Thou didst make my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed.
    41: They cried for help, but there was none to save, they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
    42: I beat them fine as dust before the wind; I cast them out like the mire of the streets.
    43: Thou didst deliver me from strife with the peoples; thou didst make me the head of the nations; people whom I had not known served me.
    44: As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me; foreigners came cringing to me.
    45: Foreigners lost heart, and came trembling out of their fastnesses.
    46: The LORD lives; and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation,
    47: the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me;
    48: who delivered me from my enemies; yea, thou didst exalt me above my adversaries; thou didst deliver me from men of violence.
    49: For this I will extol thee, O LORD, among the nations, and sing praises to thy name.
    50: Great triumphs he gives to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his descendants for ever.

  Chapter 19.

    1: The heavens are telling the glory of God; and the firmament proclaims his handiwork.
    2: Day to day pours forth speech, and night to night declares knowledge.
    3: There is no speech, nor are there words; their voice is not heard;
    4: yet their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun,
    5: which comes forth like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy.
    6: Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them; and there is nothing hid from its heat.
    7: The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple;
    8: the precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes;
    9: the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever; the ordinances of the LORD are true, and righteous altogether.
    10: More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb.
    11: Moreover by them is thy servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward.
    12: But who can discern his errors? Clear thou me from hidden faults.
    13: Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.
    14: Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my rock and my redeemer.

  Chapter 20.

    1: The LORD answer you in the day of trouble! The name of the God of Jacob protect you!
    2: May he send you help from the sanctuary, and give you support from Zion!
    3: May he remember all your offerings, and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices! [Selah]
    4: May he grant you your heart's desire, and fulfil all your plans!
    5: May we shout for joy over your victory, and in the name of our God set up our banners! May the LORD fulfil all your petitions!
    6: Now I know that the LORD will help his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with mighty victories by his right hand.
    7: Some boast of chariots, and some of horses; but we boast of the name of the LORD our God.
    8: They will collapse and fall; but we shall rise and stand upright.
    9: Give victory to the king, O LORD; answer us when we call.

End of day 148.