Day 321:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
    2: And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
    3: If I give away all I have, and if I deliver my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.
    4: Love is patient and kind; love is not jealous or boastful;
    5: it is not arrogant or rude. Love does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;
    6: it does not rejoice at wrong, but rejoices in the right.
    7: Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
    8: Love never ends; as for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.
    9: For our knowledge is imperfect and our prophecy is imperfect;
    10: but when the perfect comes, the imperfect will pass away.
    11: When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child; when I became a man, I gave up childish ways.
    12: For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall understand fully, even as I have been fully understood.
    13: So faith, hope, love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Make love your aim, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
    2: For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.
    3: On the other hand, he who prophesies speaks to men for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.
    4: He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church.
    5: Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. He who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless some one interprets, so that the church may be edified.
    6: Now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how shall I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
    7: If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will any one know what is played?
    8: And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
    9: So with yourselves; if you in a tongue utter speech that is not intelligible, how will any one know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.
    10: There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning;
    11: but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
    12: So with yourselves; since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.
    13: Therefore, he who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret.
    14: For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful.
    15: What am I to do? I will pray with the spirit and I will pray with the mind also; I will sing with the spirit and I will sing with the mind also.
    16: Otherwise, if you bless with the spirit, how can any one in the position of an outsider say the "Amen" to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?
    17: For you may give thanks well enough, but the other man is not edified.
    18: I thank God that I speak in tongues more than you all;
    19: nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind, in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
    20: Brethren, do not be children in your thinking; be babes in evil, but in thinking be mature.
    21: In the law it is written, "By men of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord."
    22: Thus, tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is not for unbelievers but for believers.
    23: If, therefore, the whole church assembles and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are mad?
    24: But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,
    25: the secrets of his heart are disclosed; and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you.
    26: What then, brethren? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
    27: If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn; and let one interpret.
    28: But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silence in church and speak to himself and to God.
    29: Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
    30: If a revelation is made to another sitting by, let the first be silent.
    31: For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged;
    32: and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
    33: For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
    34: the women should keep silence in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, as even the law says.
    35: If there is anything they desire to know, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
    36: What! Did the word of God originate with you, or are you the only ones it has reached?
    37: If any one thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that what I am writing to you is a command of the Lord.
    38: If any one does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
    39: So, my brethren, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues;
    40: but all things should be done decently and in order.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now I would remind you, brethren, in what terms I preached to you the gospel, which you received, in which you stand,
    2: by which you are saved, if you hold it fast -- unless you believed in vain.
    3: For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures,
    4: that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures,
    5: and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
    6: Then he appeared to more than five hundred brethren at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.
    7: Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
    8: Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.
    9: For I am the least of the apostles, unfit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
    10: But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God which is with me.
    11: Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed.
    12: Now if Christ is preached as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
    13: But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not been raised;
    14: if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain.
    15: We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified of God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised.
    16: For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised.
    17: If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins.
    18: Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
    19: If for this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all men most to be pitied.
    20: But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep.
    21: For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
    22: For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
    23: But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.
    24: Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power.
    25: For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
    26: The last enemy to be destroyed is death.
    27: "For God has put all things in subjection under his feet." But when it says, "All things are put in subjection under him," it is plain that he is excepted who put all things under him.
    28: When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will also be subjected to him who put all things under him, that God may be everything to every one.
    29: Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?
    30: Why am I in peril every hour?
    31: I protest, brethren, by my pride in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die every day!
    32: What do I gain if, humanly speaking, I fought with beasts at Ephesus? If the dead are not raised, "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die."
    33: Do not be deceived: "Bad company ruins good morals."
    34: Come to your right mind, and sin no more. For some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame.
    35: But some one will ask, "How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?"
    36: You foolish man! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.
    37: And what you sow is not the body which is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain.
    38: But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body.
    39: For not all flesh is alike, but there is one kind for men, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish.
    40: There are celestial bodies and there are terrestrial bodies; but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.
    41: There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
    42: So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable.
    43: It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power.
    44: It is sown a physical body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a physical body, there is also a spiritual body.
    45: Thus it is written, "The first man Adam became a living being"; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit.
    46: But it is not the spiritual which is first but the physical, and then the spiritual.
    47: The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second man is from heaven.
    48: As was the man of dust, so are those who are of the dust; and as is the man of heaven, so are those who are of heaven.
    49: Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.
    50: I tell you this, brethren: flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable.
    51: Lo! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
    52: in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.
    53: For this perishable nature must put on the imperishable, and this mortal nature must put on immortality.
    54: When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: "Death is swallowed up in victory."
    55: "O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?"
    56: The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
    57: But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
    58: Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now concerning the contribution for the saints: as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to do.
    2: On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that contributions need not be made when I come.
    3: And when I arrive, I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
    4: If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.
    5: I will visit you after passing through Macedo'nia, for I intend to pass through Macedo'nia,
    6: and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may speed me on my journey, wherever I go.
    7: For I do not want to see you now just in passing; I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits.
    8: But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
    9: for a wide door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
    10: When Timothy comes, see that you put him at ease among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord, as I am.
    11: So let no one despise him. Speed him on his way in peace, that he may return to me; for I am expecting him with the brethren.
    12: As for our brother Apol'los, I strongly urged him to visit you with the other brethren, but it was not at all his will to come now. He will come when he has opportunity.
    13: Be watchful, stand firm in your faith, be courageous, be strong.
    14: Let all that you do be done in love.
    15: Now, brethren, you know that the household of Steph'anas were the first converts in Acha'ia, and they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints;
    16: I urge you to be subject to such men and to every fellow worker and laborer.
    17: I rejoice at the coming of Steph'anas and Fortuna'tus and Acha'icus, because they have made up for your absence;
    18: for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. Give recognition to such men.
    19: The churches of Asia send greetings. Aq'uila and Prisca, together with the church in their house, send you hearty greetings in the Lord.
    20: All the brethren send greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
    21: I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.
    22: If any one has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord, come!
    23: The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
    24: My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.

End of day 321.