Day 172:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['113', '114', '115', '116']:

  Chapter 113.

    1: Praise the LORD! Praise, O servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD!
    2: Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for evermore!
    3: From the rising of the sun to its setting the name of the LORD is to be praised!
    4: The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens!
    5: Who is like the LORD our God, who is seated on high,
    6: who looks far down upon the heavens and the earth?
    7: He raises the poor from the dust, and lifts the needy from the ash heap,
    8: to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people.
    9: He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the LORD!

  Chapter 114.

    1: When Israel went forth from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language,
    2: Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
    3: The sea looked and fled, Jordan turned back.
    4: The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs.
    5: What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?
    6: O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?
    7: Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
    8: who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water.

  Chapter 115.

    1: Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to thy name give glory, for the sake of thy steadfast love and thy faithfulness!
    2: Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"
    3: Our God is in the heavens; he does whatever he pleases.
    4: Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
    5: They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see.
    6: They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell.
    7: They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat.
    8: Those who make them are like them; so are all who trust in them.
    9: O Israel, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
    10: O house of Aaron, put your trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
    11: You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
    12: The LORD has been mindful of us; he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron;
    13: he will bless those who fear the LORD, both small and great.
    14: May the LORD give you increase, you and your children!
    15: May you be blessed by the LORD, who made heaven and earth!
    16: The heavens are the LORD's heavens, but the earth he has given to the sons of men.
    17: The dead do not praise the LORD, nor do any that go down into silence.
    18: But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD!

  Chapter 116.

    1: I love the LORD, because he has heard my voice and my supplications.
    2: Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
    3: The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and anguish.
    4: Then I called on the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I beseech thee, save my life!"
    5: Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; our God is merciful.
    6: The LORD preserves the simple; when I was brought low, he saved me.
    7: Return, O my soul, to your rest; for the LORD has dealt bountifully with you.
    8: For thou hast delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling;
    9: I walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
    10: I kept my faith, even when I said, "I am greatly afflicted";
    11: I said in my consternation, "Men are all a vain hope."
    12: What shall I render to the LORD for all his bounty to me?
    13: I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD,
    14: I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people.
    15: Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
    16: O LORD, I am thy servant; I am thy servant, the son of thy handmaid. Thou hast loosed my bonds.
    17: I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD.
    18: I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people,
    19: in the courts of the house of the LORD, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!

End of day 172.