Day 320:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are not you my workmanship in the Lord?
    2: If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you; for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.
    3: This is my defense to those who would examine me.
    4: Do we not have the right to our food and drink?
    5: Do we not have the right to be accompanied by a wife, as the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
    6: Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living?
    7: Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
    8: Do I say this on human authority? Does not the law say the same?
    9: For it is written in the law of Moses, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain." Is it for oxen that God is concerned?
    10: Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of a share in the crop.
    11: If we have sown spiritual good among you, is it too much if we reap your material benefits?
    12: If others share this rightful claim upon you, do not we still more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ.
    13: Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings?
    14: In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.
    15: But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing this to secure any such provision. For I would rather die than have any one deprive me of my ground for boasting.
    16: For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel!
    17: For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with a commission.
    18: What then is my reward? Just this: that in my preaching I may make the gospel free of charge, not making full use of my right in the gospel.
    19: For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a slave to all, that I might win the more.
    20: To the Jews I became as a Jew, in order to win Jews; to those under the law I became as one under the law -- though not being myself under the law -- that I might win those under the law.
    21: To those outside the law I became as one outside the law -- not being without law toward God but under the law of Christ -- that I might win those outside the law.
    22: To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.
    23: I do it all for the sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings.
    24: Do you not know that in a race all the runners compete, but only one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain it.
    25: Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.
    26: Well, I do not run aimlessly, I do not box as one beating the air;
    27: but I pommel my body and subdue it, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified.

  Chapter 10.

    1: I want you to know, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea,
    2: and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
    3: and all ate the same supernatural food
    4: and all drank the same supernatural drink. For they drank from the supernatural Rock which followed them, and the Rock was Christ.
    5: Nevertheless with most of them God was not pleased; for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
    6: Now these things are warnings for us, not to desire evil as they did.
    7: Do not be idolaters as some of them were; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to dance."
    8: We must not indulge in immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day.
    9: We must not put the Lord to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents;
    10: nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.
    11: Now these things happened to them as a warning, but they were written down for our instruction, upon whom the end of the ages has come.
    12: Therefore let any one who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.
    13: No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your strength, but with the temptation will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.
    14: Therefore, my beloved, shun the worship of idols.
    15: I speak as to sensible men; judge for yourselves what I say.
    16: The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?
    17: Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
    18: Consider the people of Israel; are not those who eat the sacrifices partners in the altar?
    19: What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?
    20: No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.
    21: You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
    22: Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
    23: "All things are lawful," but not all things are helpful. "All things are lawful," but not all things build up.
    24: Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.
    25: Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
    26: For "the earth is the Lord's, and everything in it."
    27: If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
    28: (But if some one says to you, "This has been offered in sacrifice," then out of consideration for the man who informed you, and for conscience' sake --
    29: I mean his conscience, not yours -- do not eat it.) For why should my liberty be determined by another man's scruples?
    30: If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
    31: So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
    32: Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God,
    33: just as I try to please all men in everything I do, not seeking my own advantage, but that of many, that they may be saved.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
    2: I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I have delivered them to you.
    3: But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a woman is her husband, and the head of Christ is God.
    4: Any man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head,
    5: but any woman who prays or prophesies with her head unveiled dishonors her head -- it is the same as if her head were shaven.
    6: For if a woman will not veil herself, then she should cut off her hair; but if it is disgraceful for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her wear a veil.
    7: For a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man.
    8: (For man was not made from woman, but woman from man.
    9: Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.)
    10: That is why a woman ought to have a veil on her head, because of the angels.
    11: (Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman;
    12: for as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.)
    13: Judge for yourselves; is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
    14: Does not nature itself teach you that for a man to wear long hair is degrading to him,
    15: but if a woman has long hair, it is her pride? For her hair is given to her for a covering.
    16: If any one is disposed to be contentious, we recognize no other practice, nor do the churches of God.
    17: But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse.
    18: For, in the first place, when you assemble as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you; and I partly believe it,
    19: for there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized.
    20: When you meet together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.
    21: For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal, and one is hungry and another is drunk.
    22: What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not.
    23: For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,
    24: and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, "This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me."
    25: In the same way also the cup, after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me."
    26: For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
    27: Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord.
    28: Let a man examine himself, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
    29: For any one who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment upon himself.
    30: That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died.
    31: But if we judged ourselves truly, we should not be judged.
    32: But when we are judged by the Lord, we are chastened so that we may not be condemned along with the world.
    33: So then, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another --
    34: if any one is hungry, let him eat at home -- lest you come together to be condemned. About the other things I will give directions when I come.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be uninformed.
    2: You know that when you were heathen, you were led astray to dumb idols, however you may have been moved.
    3: Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking by the Spirit of God ever says "Jesus be cursed!" and no one can say "Jesus is Lord" except by the Holy Spirit.
    4: Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit;
    5: and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord;
    6: and there are varieties of working, but it is the same God who inspires them all in every one.
    7: To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
    8: To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
    9: to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
    10: to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues.
    11: All these are inspired by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills.
    12: For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ.
    13: For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body -- Jews or Greeks, slaves or free -- and all were made to drink of one Spirit.
    14: For the body does not consist of one member but of many.
    15: If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body," that would not make it any less a part of the body.
    16: And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body," that would not make it any less a part of the body.
    17: If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell?
    18: But as it is, God arranged the organs in the body, each one of them, as he chose.
    19: If all were a single organ, where would the body be?
    20: As it is, there are many parts, yet one body.
    21: The eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you," nor again the head to the feet, "I have no need of you."
    22: On the contrary, the parts of the body which seem to be weaker are indispensable,
    23: and those parts of the body which we think less honorable we invest with the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty,
    24: which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving the greater honor to the inferior part,
    25: that there may be no discord in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another.
    26: If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.
    27: Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it.
    28: And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then workers of miracles, then healers, helpers, administrators, speakers in various kinds of tongues.
    29: Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?
    30: Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
    31: But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.

End of day 320.