Day 313:

Reading Acts, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Now when Festus had come into his province, after three days he went up to Jerusalem from Caesare'a.
    2: And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul; and they urged him,
    3: asking as a favor to have the man sent to Jerusalem, planning an ambush to kill him on the way.
    4: Festus replied that Paul was being kept at Caesare'a, and that he himself intended to go there shortly.
    5: "So," said he, "let the men of authority among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them accuse him."
    6: When he had stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesare'a; and the next day he took his seat on the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought.
    7: And when he had come, the Jews who had gone down from Jerusalem stood about him, bringing against him many serious charges which they could not prove.
    8: Paul said in his defense, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar have I offended at all."
    9: But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, "Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem, and there be tried on these charges before me?"
    10: But Paul said, "I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried; to the Jews I have done no wrong, as you know very well.
    11: If then I am a wrongdoer, and have committed anything for which I deserve to die, I do not seek to escape death; but if there is nothing in their charges against me, no one can give me up to them. I appeal to Caesar."
    12: Then Festus, when he had conferred with his council, answered, "You have appealed to Caesar; to Caesar you shall go."
    13: Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Berni'ce arrived at Caesare'a to welcome Festus.
    14: And as they stayed there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, "There is a man left prisoner by Felix;
    15: and when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews gave information about him, asking for sentence against him.
    16: I answered them that it was not the custom of the Romans to give up any one before the accused met the accusers face to face, and had opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge laid against him.
    17: When therefore they came together here, I made no delay, but on the next day took my seat on the tribunal and ordered the man to be brought in.
    18: When the accusers stood up, they brought no charge in his case of such evils as I supposed;
    19: but they had certain points of dispute with him about their own superstition and about one Jesus, who was dead, but whom Paul asserted to be alive.
    20: Being at a loss how to investigate these questions, I asked whether he wished to go to Jerusalem and be tried there regarding them.
    21: But when Paul had appealed to be kept in custody for the decision of the emperor, I commanded him to be held until I could send him to Caesar."
    22: And Agrippa said to Festus, "I should like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," said he, "you shall hear him."
    23: So on the morrow Agrippa and Berni'ce came with great pomp, and they entered the audience hall with the military tribunes and the prominent men of the city. Then by command of Festus Paul was brought in.
    24: And Festus said, "King Agrippa and all who are present with us, you see this man about whom the whole Jewish people petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
    25: But I found that he had done nothing deserving death; and as he himself appealed to the emperor, I decided to send him.
    26: But I have nothing definite to write to my lord about him. Therefore I have brought him before you, and, especially before you, King Agrippa, that, after we have examined him, I may have something to write.
    27: For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to indicate the charges against him."

  Chapter 26.

    1: Agrippa said to Paul, "You have permission to speak for yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:
    2: "I think myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am to make my defense today against all the accusations of the Jews,
    3: because you are especially familiar with all customs and controversies of the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
    4: "My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning among my own nation and at Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews.
    5: They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest party of our religion I have lived as a Pharisee.
    6: And now I stand here on trial for hope in the promise made by God to our fathers,
    7: to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O king!
    8: Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead?
    9: "I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
    10: And I did so in Jerusalem; I not only shut up many of the saints in prison, by authority from the chief priests, but when they were put to death I cast my vote against them.
    11: And I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme; and in raging fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
    12: "Thus I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests.
    13: At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining round me and those who journeyed with me.
    14: And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, `Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? It hurts you to kick against the goads.'
    15: And I said, `Who are you, Lord?' And the Lord said, `I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
    16: But rise and stand upon your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you to serve and bear witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you,
    17: delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles -- to whom I send you
    18: to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.'
    19: "Wherefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
    20: but declared first to those at Damascus, then at Jerusalem and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God and perform deeds worthy of their repentance.
    21: For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me.
    22: To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:
    23: that the Christ must suffer, and that, by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to the people and to the Gentiles."
    24: And as he thus made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are mad; your great learning is turning you mad."
    25: But Paul said, "I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking the sober truth.
    26: For the king knows about these things, and to him I speak freely; for I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this was not done in a corner.
    27: King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."
    28: And Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time you think to make me a Christian!"
    29: And Paul said, "Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am -- except for these chains."
    30: Then the king rose, and the governor and Berni'ce and those who were sitting with them;
    31: and when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, "This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment."
    32: And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."

  Chapter 27.

    1: And when it was decided that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan Cohort, named Julius.
    2: And embarking in a ship of Adramyt'tium, which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia, we put to sea, accompanied by Aristar'chus, a Macedo'nian from Thessaloni'ca.
    3: The next day we put in at Sidon; and Julius treated Paul kindly, and gave him leave to go to his friends and be cared for.
    4: And putting to sea from there we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.
    5: And when we had sailed across the sea which is off Cili'cia and Pamphyl'ia, we came to Myra in Ly'cia.
    6: There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy, and put us on board.
    7: We sailed slowly for a number of days, and arrived with difficulty off Cni'dus, and as the wind did not allow us to go on, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmo'ne.
    8: Coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lase'a.
    9: As much time had been lost, and the voyage was already dangerous because the fast had already gone by, Paul advised them,
    10: saying, "Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives."
    11: But the centurion paid more attention to the captain and to the owner of the ship than to what Paul said.
    12: And because the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority advised to put to sea from there, on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete, looking northeast and southeast, and winter there.
    13: And when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close inshore.
    14: But soon a tempestuous wind, called the northeaster, struck down from the land;
    15: and when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven.
    16: And running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we managed with difficulty to secure the boat;
    17: after hoisting it up, they took measures to undergird the ship; then, fearing that they should run on the Syr'tis, they lowered the gear, and so were driven.
    18: As we were violently storm-tossed, they began next day to throw the cargo overboard;
    19: and the third day they cast out with their own hands the tackle of the ship.
    20: And when neither sun nor stars appeared for many a day, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned.
    21: As they had been long without food, Paul then came forward among them and said, "Men, you should have listened to me, and should not have set sail from Crete and incurred this injury and loss.
    22: I now bid you take heart; for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
    23: For this very night there stood by me an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship,
    24: and he said, `Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar; and lo, God has granted you all those who sail with you.'
    25: So take heart, men, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told.
    26: But we shall have to run on some island."
    27: When the fourteenth night had come, as we were drifting across the sea of A'dria, about midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing land.
    28: So they sounded and found twenty fathoms; a little farther on they sounded again and found fifteen fathoms.
    29: And fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let out four anchors from the stern, and prayed for day to come.
    30: And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, and had lowered the boat into the sea, under pretense of laying out anchors from the bow,
    31: Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, "Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved."
    32: Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let it go.
    33: As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing.
    34: Therefore I urge you to take some food; it will give you strength, since not a hair is to perish from the head of any of you."
    35: And when he had said this, he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all he broke it and began to eat.
    36: Then they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves.
    37: (We were in all two hundred and seventy-six persons in the ship.)
    38: And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
    39: Now when it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed a bay with a beach, on which they planned if possible to bring the ship ashore.
    40: So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the ropes that tied the rudders; then hoisting the foresail to the wind they made for the beach.
    41: But striking a shoal they ran the vessel aground; the bow stuck and remained immovable, and the stern was broken up by the surf.
    42: The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape;
    43: but the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their purpose. He ordered those who could swim to throw themselves overboard first and make for the land,
    44: and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all escaped to land.

  Chapter 28.

    1: After we had escaped, we then learned that the island was called Malta.
    2: And the natives showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had begun to rain and was cold.
    3: Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, when a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand.
    4: When the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "No doubt this man is a murderer. Though he has escaped from the sea, justice has not allowed him to live."
    5: He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm.
    6: They waited, expecting him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead; but when they had waited a long time and saw no misfortune come to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
    7: Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days.
    8: It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery; and Paul visited him and prayed, and putting his hands on him healed him.
    9: And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured.
    10: They presented many gifts to us; and when we sailed, they put on board whatever we needed.
    11: After three months we set sail in a ship which had wintered in the island, a ship of Alexandria, with the Twin Brothers as figurehead.
    12: Putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
    13: And from there we made a circuit and arrived at Rhe'gium; and after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Pute'oli.
    14: There we found brethren, and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so we came to Rome.
    15: And the brethren there, when they heard of us, came as far as the Forum of Ap'pius and Three Taverns to meet us. On seeing them Paul thanked God and took courage.
    16: And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself, with the soldier that guarded him.
    17: After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews; and when they had gathered, he said to them, "Brethren, though I had done nothing against the people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
    18: When they had examined me, they wished to set me at liberty, because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case.
    19: But when the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar -- though I had no charge to bring against my nation.
    20: For this reason therefore I have asked to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain."
    21: And they said to him, "We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brethren coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you.
    22: But we desire to hear from you what your views are; for with regard to this sect we know that everywhere it is spoken against."
    23: When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in great numbers. And he expounded the matter to them from morning till evening, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus both from the law of Moses and from the prophets.
    24: And some were convinced by what he said, while others disbelieved.
    25: So, as they disagreed among themselves, they departed, after Paul had made one statement: "The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:
    26: `Go to this people, and say, You shall indeed hear but never understand, and you shall indeed see but never perceive.
    27: For this people's heart has grown dull, and their ears are heavy of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest they should perceive with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn for me to heal them.'
    28: Let it be known to you then that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen."
    29: And he lived there two whole years at his own expense, and welcomed all who came to him,
    30: preaching the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ quite openly and unhindered.

End of day 313.