Day 219:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: O LORD, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure.
    2: For thou hast made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin; the palace of aliens is a city no more, it will never be rebuilt.
    3: Therefore strong peoples will glorify thee; cities of ruthless nations will fear thee.
    4: For thou hast been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat; for the blast of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall,
    5: like heat in a dry place. Thou dost subdue the noise of the aliens; as heat by the shade of a cloud, so the song of the ruthless is stilled.
    6: On this mountain the LORD of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of wine on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wine on the lees well refined.
    7: And he will destroy on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations.
    8: He will swallow up death for ever, and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth; for the LORD has spoken.
    9: It will be said on that day, "Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the LORD; we have waited for him; let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation."
    10: For the hand of the LORD will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trodden down in his place, as straw is trodden down in a dung-pit.
    11: And he will spread out his hands in the midst of it as a swimmer spreads his hands out to swim; but the LORD will lay low his pride together with the skill of his hands.
    12: And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground, even to the dust.

  Chapter 26.

    1: In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a strong city; he sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks.
    2: Open the gates, that the righteous nation which keeps faith may enter in.
    3: Thou dost keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusts in thee.
    4: Trust in the LORD for ever, for the LORD GOD is an everlasting rock.
    5: For he has brought low the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust.
    6: The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy."
    7: The way of the righteous is level; thou dost make smooth the path of the righteous.
    8: In the path of thy judgments, O LORD, we wait for thee; thy memorial name is the desire of our soul.
    9: My soul yearns for thee in the night, my spirit within me earnestly seeks thee. For when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
    10: If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness he deals perversely and does not see the majesty of the LORD.
    11: O LORD, thy hand is lifted up, but they see it not. Let them see thy zeal for thy people, and be ashamed. Let the fire for thy adversaries consume them.
    12: O LORD, thou wilt ordain peace for us, thou hast wrought for us all our works.
    13: O LORD our God, other lords besides thee have ruled over us, but thy name alone we acknowledge.
    14: They are dead, they will not live; they are shades, they will not arise; to that end thou hast visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them.
    15: But thou hast increased the nation, O LORD, thou hast increased the nation; thou art glorified; thou hast enlarged all the borders of the land.
    16: O LORD, in distress they sought thee, they poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them.
    17: Like a woman with child, who writhes and cries out in her pangs, when she is near her time, so were we because of thee, O LORD;
    18: we were with child, we writhed, we have as it were brought forth wind. We have wrought no deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world have not fallen.
    19: Thy dead shall live, their bodies shall rise. O dwellers in the dust, awake and sing for joy! For thy dew is a dew of light, and on the land of the shades thou wilt let it fall.
    20: Come, my people, enter your chambers, and shut your doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little while until the wrath is past.
    21: For behold, the LORD is coming forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity, and the earth will disclose the blood shed upon her, and will no more cover her slain.

  Chapter 27.

    1: In that day the LORD with his hard and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan the fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent, and he will slay the dragon that is in the sea.
    2: In that day: "A pleasant vineyard, sing of it!
    3: I, the LORD, am its keeper; every moment I water it. Lest any one harm it, I guard it night and day;
    4: I have no wrath. Would that I had thorns and briers to battle! I would set out against them, I would burn them up together.
    5: Or let them lay hold of my protection, let them make peace with me, let them make peace with me."
    6: In days to come Jacob shall take root, Israel shall blossom and put forth shoots, and fill the whole world with fruit.
    7: Has he smitten them as he smote those who smote them? Or have they been slain as their slayers were slain?
    8: Measure by measure, by exile thou didst contend with them; he removed them with his fierce blast in the day of the east wind.
    9: Therefore by this the guilt of Jacob will be expiated, and this will be the full fruit of the removal of his sin: when he makes all the stones of the altars like chalkstones crushed to pieces, no Ashe'rim or incense altars will remain standing.
    10: For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness; there the calf grazes, there he lies down, and strips its branches.
    11: When its boughs are dry, they are broken; women come and make a fire of them. For this is a people without discernment; therefore he who made them will not have compassion on them, he that formed them will show them no favor.
    12: In that day from the river Euphra'tes to the Brook of Egypt the LORD will thresh out the grain, and you will be gathered one by one, O people of Israel.
    13: And in that day a great trumpet will be blown, and those who were lost in the land of Assyria and those who were driven out to the land of Egypt will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain at Jerusalem.

  Chapter 28.

    1: Woe to the proud crown of the drunkards of E'phraim, and to the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine!
    2: Behold, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong; like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest, like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he will cast down to the earth with violence.
    3: The proud crown of the drunkards of E'phraim will be trodden under foot;
    4: and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like a first-ripe fig before the summer: when a man sees it, he eats it up as soon as it is in his hand.
    5: In that day the LORD of hosts will be a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his people;
    6: and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
    7: These also reel with wine and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink, they are confused with wine, they stagger with strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in giving judgment.
    8: For all tables are full of vomit, no place is without filthiness.
    9: "Whom will he teach knowledge, and to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, those taken from the breast?
    10: For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little."
    11: Nay, but by men of strange lips and with an alien tongue the LORD will speak to this people,
    12: to whom he has said, "This is rest; give rest to the weary; and this is repose"; yet they would not hear.
    13: Therefore the word of the LORD will be to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little; that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.
    14: Therefore hear the word of the LORD, you scoffers, who rule this people in Jerusalem!
    15: Because you have said, "We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement; when the overwhelming scourge passes through it will not come to us; for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter";
    16: therefore thus says the Lord GOD, "Behold, I am laying in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation: `He who believes will not be in haste.'
    17: And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plummet; and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and waters will overwhelm the shelter."
    18: Then your covenant with death will be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol will not stand; when the overwhelming scourge passes through you will be beaten down by it.
    19: As often as it passes through it will take you; for morning by morning it will pass through, by day and by night; and it will be sheer terror to understand the message.
    20: For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on it, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in it.
    21: For the LORD will rise up as on Mount Pera'zim, he will be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon; to do his deed -- strange is his deed! and to work his work -- alien is his work!
    22: Now therefore do not scoff, lest your bonds be made strong; for I have heard a decree of destruction from the Lord GOD of hosts upon the whole land.
    23: Give ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.
    24: Does he who plows for sowing plow continually? does he continually open and harrow his ground?
    25: When he has leveled its surface, does he not scatter dill, sow cummin, and put in wheat in rows and barley in its proper place, and spelt as the border?
    26: For he is instructed aright; his God teaches him.
    27: Dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge, nor is a cart wheel rolled over cummin; but dill is beaten out with a stick, and cummin with a rod.
    28: Does one crush bread grain? No, he does not thresh it for ever; when he drives his cart wheel over it with his horses, he does not crush it.
    29: This also comes from the LORD of hosts; he is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in wisdom.

End of day 219.