Day 311:

Reading Acts, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now when they had passed through Amphip'olis and Apollo'nia, they came to Thessaloni'ca, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
    2: And Paul went in, as was his custom, and for three weeks he argued with them from the scriptures,
    3: explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ."
    4: And some of them were persuaded, and joined Paul and Silas; as did a great many of the devout Greeks and not a few of the leading women.
    5: But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked fellows of the rabble, they gathered a crowd, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the people.
    6: And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brethren before the city authorities, crying, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also,
    7: and Jason has received them; and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus."
    8: And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard this.
    9: And when they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
    10: The brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroe'a; and when they arrived they went into the Jewish synagogue.
    11: Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessaloni'ca, for they received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so.
    12: Many of them therefore believed, with not a few Greek women of high standing as well as men.
    13: But when the Jews of Thessaloni'ca learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Beroe'a also, they came there too, stirring up and inciting the crowds.
    14: Then the brethren immediately sent Paul off on his way to the sea, but Silas and Timothy remained there.
    15: Those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
    16: Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols.
    17: So he argued in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the market place every day with those who chanced to be there.
    18: Some also of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers met him. And some said, "What would this babbler say?" Others said, "He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities" -- because he preached Jesus and the resurrection.
    19: And they took hold of him and brought him to the Are-op'agus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is which you present?
    20: For you bring some strange things to our ears; we wish to know therefore what these things mean."
    21: Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time in nothing except telling or hearing something new.
    22: So Paul, standing in the middle of the Are-op'agus, said: "Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way you are very religious.
    23: For as I passed along, and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription, `To an unknown god.' What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.
    24: The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in shrines made by man,
    25: nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all men life and breath and everything.
    26: And he made from one every nation of men to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their habitation,
    27: that they should seek God, in the hope that they might feel after him and find him. Yet he is not far from each one of us,
    28: for `In him we live and move and have our being'; as even some of your poets have said, `For we are indeed his offspring.'
    29: Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the Deity is like gold, or silver, or stone, a representation by the art and imagination of man.
    30: The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all men everywhere to repent,
    31: because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all men by raising him from the dead."
    32: Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked; but others said, "We will hear you again about this."
    33: So Paul went out from among them.
    34: But some men joined him and believed, among them Dionys'ius the Are-op'agite and a woman named Dam'aris and others with them.

  Chapter 18.

    1: After this he left Athens and went to Corinth.
    2: And he found a Jew named Aq'uila, a native of Pontus, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to see them;
    3: and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them, and they worked, for by trade they were tentmakers.
    4: And he argued in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks.
    5: When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedo'nia, Paul was occupied with preaching, testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus.
    6: And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his garments and said to them, "Your blood be upon your heads! I am innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
    7: And he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God; his house was next door to the synagogue.
    8: Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with all his household; and many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.
    9: And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, "Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent;
    10: for I am with you, and no man shall attack you to harm you; for I have many people in this city."
    11: And he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
    12: But when Gallio was proconsul of Acha'ia, the Jews made a united attack upon Paul and brought him before the tribunal,
    13: saying, "This man is persuading men to worship God contrary to the law."
    14: But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it were a matter of wrongdoing or vicious crime, I should have reason to bear with you, O Jews;
    15: but since it is a matter of questions about words and names and your own law, see to it yourselves; I refuse to be a judge of these things."
    16: And he drove them from the tribunal.
    17: And they all seized Sos'thenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the tribunal. But Gallio paid no attention to this.
    18: After this Paul stayed many days longer, and then took leave of the brethren and sailed for Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aq'uila. At Cen'chre-ae he cut his hair, for he had a vow.
    19: And they came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself went into the synagogue and argued with the Jews.
    20: When they asked him to stay for a longer period, he declined;
    21: but on taking leave of them he said, "I will return to you if God wills," and he set sail from Ephesus.
    22: When he had landed at Caesare'a, he went up and greeted the church, and then went down to Antioch.
    23: After spending some time there he departed and went from place to place through the region of Galatia and Phryg'ia, strengthening all the disciples.
    24: Now a Jew named Apol'los, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, well versed in the scriptures.
    25: He had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.
    26: He began to speak boldly in the synagogue; but when Priscilla and Aq'uila heard him, they took him and expounded to him the way of God more accurately.
    27: And when he wished to cross to Acha'ia, the brethren encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive him. When he arrived, he greatly helped those who through grace had believed,
    28: for he powerfully confuted the Jews in public, showing by the scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.

  Chapter 19.

    1: While Apol'los was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples.
    2: And he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" And they said, "No, we have never even heard that there is a Holy Spirit."
    3: And he said, "Into what then were you baptized?" They said, "Into John's baptism."
    4: And Paul said, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus."
    5: On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
    6: And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Spirit came on them; and they spoke with tongues and prophesied.
    7: There were about twelve of them in all.
    8: And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke boldly, arguing and pleading about the kingdom of God;
    9: but when some were stubborn and disbelieved, speaking evil of the Way before the congregation, he withdrew from them, taking the disciples with him, and argued daily in the hall of Tyran'nus.
    10: This continued for two years, so that all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
    11: And God did extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
    12: so that handkerchiefs or aprons were carried away from his body to the sick, and diseases left them and the evil spirits came out of them.
    13: Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to pronounce the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, "I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches."
    14: Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva were doing this.
    15: But the evil spirit answered them, "Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are you?"
    16: And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, mastered all of them, and overpowered them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
    17: And this became known to all residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks; and fear fell upon them all; and the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled.
    18: Many also of those who were now believers came, confessing and divulging their practices.
    19: And a number of those who practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all; and they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
    20: So the word of the Lord grew and prevailed mightily.
    21: Now after these events Paul resolved in the Spirit to pass through Macedo'nia and Acha'ia and go to Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome."
    22: And having sent into Macedo'nia two of his helpers, Timothy and Eras'tus, he himself stayed in Asia for a while.
    23: About that time there arose no little stir concerning the Way.
    24: For a man named Deme'trius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Ar'temis, brought no little business to the craftsmen.
    25: These he gathered together, with the workmen of like occupation, and said, "Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth.
    26: And you see and hear that not only at Ephesus but almost throughout all Asia this Paul has persuaded and turned away a considerable company of people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods.
    27: And there is danger not only that this trade of ours may come into disrepute but also that the temple of the great goddess Ar'temis may count for nothing, and that she may even be deposed from her magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship."
    28: When they heard this they were enraged, and cried out, "Great is Ar'temis of the Ephesians!"
    29: So the city was filled with the confusion; and they rushed together into the theater, dragging with them Ga'ius and Aristar'chus, Macedo'nians who were Paul's companions in travel.
    30: Paul wished to go in among the crowd, but the disciples would not let him;
    31: some of the A'si-archs also, who were friends of his, sent to him and begged him not to venture into the theater.
    32: Now some cried one thing, some another; for the assembly was in confusion, and most of them did not know why they had come together.
    33: Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, whom the Jews had put forward. And Alexander motioned with his hand, wishing to make a defense to the people.
    34: But when they recognized that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all with one voice cried out, "Great is Ar'temis of the Ephesians!"
    35: And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, "Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple keeper of the great Ar'temis, and of the sacred stone that fell from the sky?
    36: Seeing then that these things cannot be contradicted, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.
    37: For you have brought these men here who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers of our goddess.
    38: If therefore Deme'trius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against any one, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges against one another.
    39: But if you seek anything further, it shall be settled in the regular assembly.
    40: For we are in danger of being charged with rioting today, there being no cause that we can give to justify this commotion."
    41: And when he had said this, he dismissed the assembly.

  Chapter 20.

    1: After the uproar ceased, Paul sent for the disciples and having exhorted them took leave of them and departed for Macedo'nia.
    2: When he had gone through these parts and had given them much encouragement, he came to Greece.
    3: There he spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he determined to return through Macedo'nia.
    4: Sop'ater of Beroe'a, the son of Pyrrhus, accompanied him; and of the Thessalo'nians, Aristar'chus and Secun'dus; and Ga'ius of Derbe, and Timothy; and the Asians, Tych'icus and Troph'imus.
    5: These went on and were waiting for us at Tro'as,
    6: but we sailed away from Philip'pi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we came to them at Tro'as, where we stayed for seven days.
    7: On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the morrow; and he prolonged his speech until midnight.
    8: There were many lights in the upper chamber where we were gathered.
    9: And a young man named Eu'tychus was sitting in the window. He sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked still longer; and being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
    10: But Paul went down and bent over him, and embracing him said, "Do not be alarmed, for his life is in him."
    11: And when Paul had gone up and had broken bread and eaten, he conversed with them a long while, until daybreak, and so departed.
    12: And they took the lad away alive, and were not a little comforted.
    13: But going ahead to the ship, we set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul aboard there; for so he had arranged, intending himself to go by land.
    14: And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and came to Mityle'ne.
    15: And sailing from there we came the following day opposite Chi'os; the next day we touched at Samos; and the day after that we came to Mile'tus.
    16: For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost.
    17: And from Mile'tus he sent to Ephesus and called to him the elders of the church.
    18: And when they came to him, he said to them: "You yourselves know how I lived among you all the time from the first day that I set foot in Asia,
    19: serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials which befell me through the plots of the Jews;
    20: how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public and from house to house,
    21: testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance to God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
    22: And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, bound in the Spirit, not knowing what shall befall me there;
    23: except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me.
    24: But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may accomplish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
    25: And now, behold, I know that all you among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom will see my face no more.
    26: Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you,
    27: for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.
    28: Take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God which he obtained with the blood of his own Son.
    29: I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;
    30: and from among your own selves will arise men speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them.
    31: Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish every one with tears.
    32: And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
    33: I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.
    34: You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities, and to those who were with me.
    35: In all things I have shown you that by so toiling one must help the weak, remembering the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, `It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
    36: And when he had spoken thus, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
    37: And they all wept and embraced Paul and kissed him,
    38: sorrowing most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they should see his face no more. And they brought him to the ship.

End of day 311.