Day 342:

Reading Hebrews, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly sanctuary.
    2: For a tent was prepared, the outer one, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence; it is called the Holy Place.
    3: Behind the second curtain stood a tent called the Holy of Holies,
    4: having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, which contained a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
    5: above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail.
    6: These preparations having thus been made, the priests go continually into the outer tent, performing their ritual duties;
    7: but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood which he offers for himself and for the errors of the people.
    8: By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the sanctuary is not yet opened as long as the outer tent is still standing
    9: (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered which cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper,
    10: but deal only with food and drink and various ablutions, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation.
    11: But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation)
    12: he entered once for all into the Holy Place, taking not the blood of goats and calves but his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption.
    13: For if the sprinkling of defiled persons with the blood of goats and bulls and with the ashes of a heifer sanctifies for the purification of the flesh,
    14: how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God.
    15: Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred which redeems them from the transgressions under the first covenant.
    16: For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established.
    17: For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive.
    18: Hence even the first covenant was not ratified without blood.
    19: For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
    20: saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you."
    21: And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship.
    22: Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
    23: Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
    24: For Christ has entered, not into a sanctuary made with hands, a copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.
    25: Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the Holy Place yearly with blood not his own;
    26: for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the age to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
    27: And just as it is appointed for men to die once, and after that comes judgment,
    28: so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.

  Chapter 10.

    1: For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices which are continually offered year after year, make perfect those who draw near.
    2: Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered? If the worshipers had once been cleansed, they would no longer have any consciousness of sin.
    3: But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sin year after year.
    4: For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins.
    5: Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, "Sacrifices and offerings thou hast not desired, but a body hast thou prepared for me;
    6: in burnt offerings and sin offerings thou hast taken no pleasure.
    7: Then I said, `Lo, I have come to do thy will, O God, 'as it is written of me in the roll of the book."
    8: When he said above, "Thou hast neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings" (these are offered according to the law),
    9: then he added, "Lo, I have come to do thy will." He abolishes the first in order to establish the second.
    10: And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
    11: And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
    12: But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,
    13: then to wait until his enemies should be made a stool for his feet.
    14: For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified.
    15: And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
    16: "This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds, "
    17: then he adds, "I will remember their sins and their misdeeds no more."
    18: Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.
    19: Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
    20: by the new and living way which he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,
    21: and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
    22: let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
    23: Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful;
    24: and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works,
    25: not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.
    26: For if we sin deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,
    27: but a fearful prospect of judgment, and a fury of fire which will consume the adversaries.
    28: A man who has violated the law of Moses dies without mercy at the testimony of two or three witnesses.
    29: How much worse punishment do you think will be deserved by the man who has spurned the Son of God, and profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and outraged the Spirit of grace?
    30: For we know him who said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay." And again, "The Lord will judge his people."
    31: It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
    32: But recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings,
    33: sometimes being publicly exposed to abuse and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated.
    34: For you had compassion on the prisoners, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one.
    35: Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward.
    36: For you have need of endurance, so that you may do the will of God and receive what is promised.
    37: "For yet a little while, and the coming one shall come and shall not tarry;
    38: but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him."
    39: But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and keep their souls.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
    2: For by it the men of old received divine approval.
    3: By faith we understand that the world was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was made out of things which do not appear.
    4: By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he received approval as righteous, God bearing witness by accepting his gifts; he died, but through his faith he is still speaking.
    5: By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was attested as having pleased God.
    6: And without faith it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.
    7: By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, took heed and constructed an ark for the saving of his household; by this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness which comes by faith.
    8: By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place which he was to receive as an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was to go.
    9: By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise.
    10: For he looked forward to the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
    11: By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised.
    12: Therefore from one man, and him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of heaven and as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.
    13: These all died in faith, not having received what was promised, but having seen it and greeted it from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.
    14: For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.
    15: If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return.
    16: But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city.
    17: By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was ready to offer up his only son,
    18: of whom it was said, "Through Isaac shall your descendants be named."
    19: He considered that God was able to raise men even from the dead; hence, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back.
    20: By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau.
    21: By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff.
    22: By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his burial.
    23: By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful; and they were not afraid of the king's edict.
    24: By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
    25: choosing rather to share ill-treatment with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin.
    26: He considered abuse suffered for the Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he looked to the reward.
    27: By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king; for he endured as seeing him who is invisible.
    28: By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
    29: By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as if on dry land; but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned.
    30: By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days.
    31: By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had given friendly welcome to the spies.
    32: And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets --
    33: who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, received promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
    34: quenched raging fire, escaped the edge of the sword, won strength out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight.
    35: Women received their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, that they might rise again to a better life.
    36: Others suffered mocking and scourging, and even chains and imprisonment.
    37: They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword; they went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, ill-treated --
    38: of whom the world was not worthy -- wandering over deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
    39: And all these, though well attested by their faith, did not receive what was promised,
    40: since God had foreseen something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with perseverance the race that is set before us,
    2: looking to Jesus the pioneer and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
    3: Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted.
    4: In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.
    5: And have you forgotten the exhortation which addresses you as sons? -- "My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor lose courage when you are punished by him.
    6: For the Lord disciplines him whom he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives."
    7: It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons; for what son is there whom his father does not discipline?
    8: If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.
    9: Besides this, we have had earthly fathers to discipline us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live?
    10: For they disciplined us for a short time at their pleasure, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness.
    11: For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant; later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
    12: Therefore lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees,
    13: and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather be healed.
    14: Strive for peace with all men, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.
    15: See to it that no one fail to obtain the grace of God; that no "root of bitterness" spring up and cause trouble, and by it the many become defiled;
    16: that no one be immoral or irreligious like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
    17: For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears.
    18: For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire, and darkness, and gloom, and a tempest,
    19: and the sound of a trumpet, and a voice whose words made the hearers entreat that no further messages be spoken to them.
    20: For they could not endure the order that was given, "If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned."
    21: Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, "I tremble with fear."
    22: But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering,
    23: and to the assembly of the first-born who are enrolled in heaven, and to a judge who is God of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect,
    24: and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks more graciously than the blood of Abel.
    25: See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less shall we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven.
    26: His voice then shook the earth; but now he has promised, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heaven."
    27: This phrase, "Yet once more, " indicates the removal of what is shaken, as of what has been made, in order that what cannot be shaken may remain.
    28: Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe;
    29: for our God is a consuming fire.

End of day 342.