Day 101:

Reading 2-Chronicles, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Jehosh'aphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel.
    2: He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of E'phraim which Asa his father had taken.
    3: The LORD was with Jehosh'aphat, because he walked in the earlier ways of his father; he did not seek the Ba'als,
    4: but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the ways of Israel.
    5: Therefore the LORD established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought tribute to Jehosh'aphat; and he had great riches and honor.
    6: His heart was courageous in the ways of the LORD; and furthermore he took the high places and the Ashe'rim out of Judah.
    7: In the third year of his reign he sent his princes, Ben-hail, Obadi'ah, Zechari'ah, Nethan'el, and Micai'ah, to teach in the cities of Judah;
    8: and with them the Levites, Shemai'ah, Nethani'ah, Zebadi'ah, As'ahel, Shemi'ramoth, Jehon'athan, Adoni'jah, Tobi'jah, and Tobadoni'jah; and with these Levites, the priests Eli'shama and Jeho'ram.
    9: And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the LORD with them; they went about through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
    10: And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, and they made no war against Jehosh'aphat.
    11: Some of the Philistines brought Jehosh'aphat presents, and silver for tribute; and the Arabs also brought him seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred he-goats.
    12: And Jehosh'aphat grew steadily greater. He built in Judah fortresses and store-cities,
    13: and he had great stores in the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem.
    14: This was the muster of them by fathers' houses: Of Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the commander, with three hundred thousand mighty men of valor,
    15: and next to him Jehoha'nan the commander, with two hundred and eighty thousand,
    16: and next to him Amasi'ah the son of Zichri, a volunteer for the service of the LORD, with two hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
    17: Of Benjamin: Eli'ada, a mighty man of valor, with two hundred thousand men armed with bow and shield,
    18: and next to him Jeho'zabad with a hundred and eighty thousand armed for war.
    19: These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king had placed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.

  Chapter 18.

    1: Now Jehosh'aphat had great riches and honor; and he made a marriage alliance with Ahab.
    2: After some years he went down to Ahab in Sama'ria. And Ahab killed an abundance of sheep and oxen for him and for the people who were with him, and induced him to go up against Ramoth-gilead.
    3: Ahab king of Israel said to Jehosh'aphat king of Judah, "Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead?" He answered him, "I am as you are, my people as your people. We will be with you in the war."
    4: And Jehosh'aphat said to the king of Israel, "Inquire first for the word of the LORD."
    5: Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, "Shall we go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or shall I forbear?" And they said, "Go up; for God will give it into the hand of the king."
    6: But Jehosh'aphat said, "Is there not here another prophet of the LORD of whom we may inquire?"
    7: And the king of Israel said to Jehosh'aphat, "There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, Micai'ah the son of Imlah; but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil." And Jehosh'aphat said, "Let not the king say so."
    8: Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, "Bring quickly Micai'ah the son of Imlah."
    9: Now the king of Israel and Jehosh'aphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their robes; and they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Sama'ria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
    10: And Zedeki'ah the son of Chena'anah made for himself horns of iron, and said, "Thus says the LORD, `With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed.'"
    11: And all the prophets prophesied so, and said, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and triumph; the LORD will give it into the hand of the king."
    12: And the messenger who went to summon Micai'ah said to him, "Behold, the words of the prophets with one accord are favorable to the king; let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably."
    13: But Micai'ah said, "As the LORD lives, what my God says, that I will speak."
    14: And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, "Micai'ah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear?" And he answered, "Go up and triumph; they will be given into your hand."
    15: But the king said to him, "How many times shall I adjure you that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?"
    16: And he said, "I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd; and the LORD said, `These have no master; let each return to his home in peace.'"
    17: And the king of Israel said to Jehosh'aphat, "Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?"
    18: And Micai'ah said, "Therefore hear the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left;
    19: and the LORD said, `Who will entice Ahab the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?' And one said one thing, and another said another.
    20: Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, `I will entice him.' And the LORD said to him, `By what means?'
    21: And he said, `I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And he said, `You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go forth and do so.'
    22: Now therefore behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets; the LORD has spoken evil concerning you."
    23: Then Zedeki'ah the son of Chena'anah came near and struck Micai'ah on the cheek, and said, "Which way did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?"
    24: And Micai'ah said, "Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself."
    25: And the king of Israel said, "Seize Micai'ah, and take him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Jo'ash the king's son;
    26: and say, `Thus says the king, Put this fellow in prison, and feed him with scant fare of bread and water, until I return in peace.'"
    27: And Micai'ah said, "If you return in peace, the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Hear, all you peoples!"
    28: So the king of Israel and Jehosh'aphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
    29: And the king of Israel said to Jehosh'aphat, "I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear your robes." And the king of Israel disguised himself; and they went into battle.
    30: Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, "Fight with neither small nor great, but only with the king of Israel."
    31: And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehosh'aphat, they said, "It is the king of Israel." So they turned to fight against him; and Jehosh'aphat cried out, and the LORD helped him. God drew them away from him,
    32: for when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.
    33: But a certain man drew his bow at a venture, and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate; therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn about, and carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded."
    34: And the battle grew hot that day, and the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariot facing the Syrians until evening; then at sunset he died.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Jehosh'aphat the king of Judah returned in safety to his house in Jerusalem.
    2: But Jehu the son of Hana'ni the seer went out to meet him, and said to King Jehosh'aphat, "Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the LORD? Because of this, wrath has gone out against you from the LORD.
    3: Nevertheless some good is found in you, for you destroyed the Ashe'rahs out of the land, and have set your heart to seek God."
    4: Jehosh'aphat dwelt at Jerusalem; and he went out again among the people, from Beer-sheba to the hill country of E'phraim, and brought them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
    5: He appointed judges in the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city,
    6: and said to the judges, "Consider what you do, for you judge not for man but for the LORD; he is with you in giving judgment.
    7: Now then, let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed what you do, for there is no perversion of justice with the LORD our God, or partiality, or taking bribes."
    8: Moreover in Jerusalem Jehosh'aphat appointed certain Levites and priests and heads of families of Israel, to give judgment for the LORD and to decide disputed cases. They had their seat at Jerusalem.
    9: And he charged them: "Thus you shall do in the fear of the LORD, in faithfulness, and with your whole heart:
    10: whenever a case comes to you from your brethren who live in their cities, concerning bloodshed, law or commandment, statutes or ordinances, then you shall instruct them, that they may not incur guilt before the LORD and wrath may not come upon you and your brethren. Thus you shall do, and you will not incur guilt.
    11: And behold, Amari'ah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the LORD; and Zebadi'ah the son of Ish'mael, the governor of the house of Judah, in all the king's matters; and the Levites will serve you as officers. Deal courageously, and may the LORD be with the upright!"

  Chapter 20.

    1: After this the Moabites and Ammonites, and with them some of the Me-u'nites, came against Jehosh'aphat for battle.
    2: Some men came and told Jehosh'aphat, "A great multitude is coming against you from Edom, from beyond the sea; and, behold, they are in Haz'azon-ta'mar" (that is, En-ge'di).
    3: Then Jehosh'aphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
    4: And Judah assembled to seek help from the LORD; from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.
    5: And Jehosh'aphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, before the new court,
    6: and said, "O LORD, God of our fathers, art thou not God in heaven? Dost thou not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? In thy hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee.
    7: Didst thou not, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and give it for ever to the descendants of Abraham thy friend?
    8: And they have dwelt in it, and have built thee in it a sanctuary for thy name, saying,
    9: `If evil comes upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house, and before thee, for thy name is in this house, and cry to thee in our affliction, and thou wilt hear and save.'
    10: And now behold, the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Se'ir, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade when they came from the land of Egypt, and whom they avoided and did not destroy --
    11: behold, they reward us by coming to drive us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.
    12: O our God, wilt thou not execute judgment upon them? For we are powerless against this great multitude that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are upon thee."
    13: Meanwhile all the men of Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
    14: And the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jaha'ziel the son of Zechari'ah, son of Benai'ah, son of Je-i'el, son of Mattani'ah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly.
    15: And he said, "Hearken, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, and King Jehosh'aphat: Thus says the LORD to you, `Fear not, and be not dismayed at this great multitude; for the battle is not yours but God's.
    16: Tomorrow go down against them; behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz; you will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeru'el.
    17: You will not need to fight in this battle; take your position, stand still, and see the victory of the LORD on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem.' Fear not, and be not dismayed; tomorrow go out against them, and the LORD will be with you."
    18: Then Jehosh'aphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the LORD, worshiping the LORD.
    19: And the Levites, of the Ko'hathites and the Kor'ahites, stood up to praise the LORD, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice.
    20: And they rose early in the morning and went out into the wilderness of Teko'a; and as they went out, Jehosh'aphat stood and said, "Hear me, Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the LORD your God, and you will be established; believe his prophets, and you will succeed."
    21: And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to the LORD and praise him in holy array, as they went before the army, and say, "Give thanks to the LORD, for his steadfast love endures for ever."
    22: And when they began to sing and praise, the LORD set an ambush against the men of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Se'ir, who had come against Judah, so that they were routed.
    23: For the men of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of Mount Se'ir, destroying them utterly, and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Se'ir, they all helped to destroy one another.
    24: When Judah came to the watchtower of the wilderness, they looked toward the multitude; and behold, they were dead bodies lying on the ground; none had escaped.
    25: When Jehosh'aphat and his people came to take the spoil from them, they found cattle in great numbers, goods, clothing, and precious things, which they took for themselves until they could carry no more. They were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
    26: On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Bera'cah, for there they blessed the LORD; therefore the name of that place has been called the Valley of Bera'cah to this day.
    27: Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehosh'aphat at their head, returning to Jerusalem with joy, for the LORD had made them rejoice over their enemies.
    28: They came to Jerusalem, with harps and lyres and trumpets, to the house of the LORD.
    29: And the fear of God came on all the kingdoms of the countries when they heard that the LORD had fought against the enemies of Israel.
    30: So the realm of Jehosh'aphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest round about.
    31: Thus Jehosh'aphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azu'bah the daughter of Shilhi.
    32: He walked in the way of Asa his father and did not turn aside from it; he did what was right in the sight of the LORD.
    33: The high places, however, were not taken away; the people had not yet set their hearts upon the God of their fathers.
    34: Now the rest of the acts of Jehosh'aphat, from first to last, are written in the chronicles of Jehu the son of Hana'ni, which are recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel.
    35: After this Jehosh'aphat king of Judah joined with Ahazi'ah king of Israel, who did wickedly.
    36: He joined him in building ships to go to Tarshish, and they built the ships in E'zion-ge'ber.
    37: Then Elie'zer the son of Do-dav'ahu of Mare'shah prophesied against Jehosh'aphat, saying, "Because you have joined with Ahazi'ah, the LORD will destroy what you have made." And the ships were wrecked and were not able to go to Tarshish.

End of day 101.