Day 297:

Reading Luke, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases,
    2: and he sent them out to preach the kingdom of God and to heal.
    3: And he said to them, "Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics.
    4: And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart.
    5: And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them."
    6: And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere.
    7: Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done, and he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had been raised from the dead,
    8: by some that Eli'jah had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets had risen.
    9: Herod said, "John I beheaded; but who is this about whom I hear such things?" And he sought to see him.
    10: On their return the apostles told him what they had done. And he took them and withdrew apart to a city called Beth-sa'ida.
    11: When the crowds learned it, they followed him; and he welcomed them and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and cured those who had need of healing.
    12: Now the day began to wear away; and the twelve came and said to him, "Send the crowd away, to go into the villages and country round about, to lodge and get provisions; for we are here in a lonely place."
    13: But he said to them, "You give them something to eat." They said, "We have no more than five loaves and two fish -- unless we are to go and buy food for all these people."
    14: For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, "Make them sit down in companies, about fifty each."
    15: And they did so, and made them all sit down.
    16: And taking the five loaves and the two fish he looked up to heaven, and blessed and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
    17: And all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over, twelve baskets of broken pieces.
    18: Now it happened that as he was praying alone the disciples were with him; and he asked them, "Who do the people say that I am?"
    19: And they answered, "John the Baptist; but others say, Eli'jah; and others, that one of the old prophets has risen."
    20: And he said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" And Peter answered, "The Christ of God."
    21: But he charged and commanded them to tell this to no one,
    22: saying, "The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised."
    23: And he said to all, "If any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.
    24: For whoever would save his life will lose it; and whoever loses his life for my sake, he will save it.
    25: For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?
    26: For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of man be ashamed when he comes in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.
    27: But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God."
    28: Now about eight days after these sayings he took with him Peter and John and James, and went up on the mountain to pray.
    29: And as he was praying, the appearance of his countenance was altered, and his raiment became dazzling white.
    30: And behold, two men talked with him, Moses and Eli'jah,
    31: who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was to accomplish at Jerusalem.
    32: Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, and when they wakened they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him.
    33: And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is well that we are here; let us make three booths, one for you and one for Moses and one for Eli'jah" -- not knowing what he said.
    34: As he said this, a cloud came and overshadowed them; and they were afraid as they entered the cloud.
    35: And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my Son, my Chosen; listen to him!"
    36: And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silence and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
    37: On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him.
    38: And behold, a man from the crowd cried, "Teacher, I beg you to look upon my son, for he is my only child;
    39: and behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out; it convulses him till he foams, and shatters him, and will hardly leave him.
    40: And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not."
    41: Jesus answered, "O faithless and perverse generation, how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here."
    42: While he was coming, the demon tore him and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
    43: And all were astonished at the majesty of God. But while they were all marveling at everything he did, he said to his disciples,
    44: "Let these words sink into your ears; for the Son of man is to be delivered into the hands of men."
    45: But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
    46: And an argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest.
    47: But when Jesus perceived the thought of their hearts, he took a child and put him by his side,
    48: and said to them, "Whoever receives this child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me; for he who is least among you all is the one who is great."
    49: John answered, "Master, we saw a man casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us."
    50: But Jesus said to him, "Do not forbid him; for he that is not against you is for you."
    51: When the days drew near for him to be received up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem.
    52: And he sent messengers ahead of him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him;
    53: but the people would not receive him, because his face was set toward Jerusalem.
    54: And when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, "Lord, do you want us to bid fire come down from heaven and consume them?"
    55: But he turned and rebuked them.
    56: And they went on to another village.
    57: As they were going along the road, a man said to him, "I will follow you wherever you go."
    58: And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man has nowhere to lay his head."
    59: To another he said, "Follow me." But he said, "Lord, let me first go and bury my father."
    60: But he said to him, "Leave the dead to bury their own dead; but as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God."
    61: Another said, "I will follow you, Lord; but let me first say farewell to those at my home."
    62: Jesus said to him, "No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God."

  Chapter 10.

    1: After this the Lord appointed seventy others, and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to come.
    2: And he said to them, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
    3: Go your way; behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
    4: Carry no purse, no bag, no sandals; and salute no one on the road.
    5: Whatever house you enter, first say, `Peace be to this house!'
    6: And if a son of peace is there, your peace shall rest upon him; but if not, it shall return to you.
    7: And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages; do not go from house to house.
    8: Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you;
    9: heal the sick in it and say to them, `The kingdom of God has come near to you.'
    10: But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say,
    11: `Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet, we wipe off against you; nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.'
    12: I tell you, it shall be more tolerable on that day for Sodom than for that town.
    13: "Woe to you, Chora'zin! woe to you, Beth-sa'ida! for if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
    14: But it shall be more tolerable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
    15: And you, Caper'na-um, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades.
    16: "He who hears you hears me, and he who rejects you rejects me, and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me."
    17: The seventy returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"
    18: And he said to them, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.
    19: Behold, I have given you authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy; and nothing shall hurt you.
    20: Nevertheless do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you; but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."
    21: In that same hour he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, "I thank thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to babes; yea, Father, for such was thy gracious will.
    22: All things have been delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, or who the Father is except the Son and any one to whom the Son chooses to reveal him."
    23: Then turning to the disciples he said privately, "Blessed are the eyes which see what you see!
    24: For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it."
    25: And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"
    26: He said to him, "What is written in the law? How do you read?"
    27: And he answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself."
    28: And he said to him, "You have answered right; do this, and you will live."
    29: But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"
    30: Jesus replied, "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
    31: Now by chance a priest was going down that road; and when he saw him he passed by on the other side.
    32: So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
    33: But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was; and when he saw him, he had compassion,
    34: and went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine; then he set him on his own beast and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
    35: And the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, `Take care of him; and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.'
    36: Which of these three, do you think, proved neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?"
    37: He said, "The one who showed mercy on him." And Jesus said to him, "Go and do likewise."
    38: Now as they went on their way, he entered a village; and a woman named Martha received him into her house.
    39: And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching.
    40: But Martha was distracted with much serving; and she went to him and said, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me."
    41: But the Lord answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things;
    42: one thing is needful. Mary has chosen the good portion, which shall not be taken away from her."

  Chapter 11.

    1: He was praying in a certain place, and when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples."
    2: And he said to them, "When you pray, say: "Father, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come.
    3: Give us each day our daily bread;
    4: and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive every one who is indebted to us; and lead us not into temptation."
    5: And he said to them, "Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, `Friend, lend me three loaves;
    6: for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him';
    7: and he will answer from within, `Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot get up and give you anything'?
    8: I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him whatever he needs.
    9: And I tell you, Ask, and it will be given you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
    10: For every one who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened.
    11: What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent;
    12: or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
    13: If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!"
    14: Now he was casting out a demon that was dumb; when the demon had gone out, the dumb man spoke, and the people marveled.
    15: But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Be-el'zebul, the prince of demons";
    16: while others, to test him, sought from him a sign from heaven.
    17: But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls.
    18: And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Be-el'zebul.
    19: And if I cast out demons by Be-el'zebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
    20: But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
    21: When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are in peace;
    22: but when one stronger than he assails him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoil.
    23: He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.
    24: "When the unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he passes through waterless places seeking rest; and finding none he says, `I will return to my house from which I came.'
    25: And when he comes he finds it swept and put in order.
    26: Then he goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter and dwell there; and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first."
    27: As he said this, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts that you sucked!"
    28: But he said, "Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!"
    29: When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, "This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
    30: For as Jonah became a sign to the men of Nin'eveh, so will the Son of man be to this generation.
    31: The queen of the South will arise at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
    32: The men of Nin'eveh will arise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
    33: "No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a bushel, but on a stand, that those who enter may see the light.
    34: Your eye is the lamp of your body; when your eye is sound, your whole body is full of light; but when it is not sound, your body is full of darkness.
    35: Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
    36: If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light."
    37: While he was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him; so he went in and sat at table.
    38: The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner.
    39: And the Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of extortion and wickedness.
    40: You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
    41: But give for alms those things which are within; and behold, everything is clean for you.
    42: "But woe to you Pharisees! for you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God; these you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
    43: Woe to you Pharisees! for you love the best seat in the synagogues and salutations in the market places.
    44: Woe to you! for you are like graves which are not seen, and men walk over them without knowing it."
    45: One of the lawyers answered him, "Teacher, in saying this you reproach us also."
    46: And he said, "Woe to you lawyers also! for you load men with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
    47: Woe to you! for you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed.
    48: So you are witnesses and consent to the deeds of your fathers; for they killed them, and you build their tombs.
    49: Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, `I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,'
    50: that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,
    51: from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechari'ah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it shall be required of this generation.
    52: Woe to you lawyers! for you have taken away the key of knowledge; you did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering."
    53: As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard, and to provoke him to speak of many things,
    54: lying in wait for him, to catch at something he might say.

  Chapter 12.

    1: In the meantime, when so many thousands of the multitude had gathered together that they trod upon one another, he began to say to his disciples first, "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
    2: Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
    3: Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.
    4: "I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
    5: But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has power to cast into hell; yes, I tell you, fear him!
    6: Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
    7: Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many sparrows.
    8: "And I tell you, every one who acknowledges me before men, the Son of man also will acknowledge before the angels of God;
    9: but he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
    10: And every one who speaks a word against the Son of man will be forgiven; but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
    11: And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious how or what you are to answer or what you are to say;
    12: for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say."
    13: One of the multitude said to him, "Teacher, bid my brother divide the inheritance with me."
    14: But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or divider over you?"
    15: And he said to them, "Take heed, and beware of all covetousness; for a man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions."
    16: And he told them a parable, saying, "The land of a rich man brought forth plentifully;
    17: and he thought to himself, `What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?'
    18: And he said, `I will do this: I will pull down my barns, and build larger ones; and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
    19: And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; take your ease, eat, drink, be merry.'
    20: But God said to him, `Fool! This night your soul is required of you; and the things you have prepared, whose will they be?'
    21: So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God."
    22: And he said to his disciples, "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you shall eat, nor about your body, what you shall put on.
    23: For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
    24: Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!
    25: And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his span of life?
    26: If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest?
    27: Consider the lilies, how they grow; they neither toil nor spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
    28: But if God so clothes the grass which is alive in the field today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O men of little faith!
    29: And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be of anxious mind.
    30: For all the nations of the world seek these things; and your Father knows that you need them.
    31: Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things shall be yours as well.
    32: "Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
    33: Sell your possessions, and give alms; provide yourselves with purses that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
    34: For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
    35: "Let your loins be girded and your lamps burning,
    36: and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the marriage feast, so that they may open to him at once when he comes and knocks.
    37: Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes; truly, I say to you, he will gird himself and have them sit at table, and he will come and serve them.
    38: If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those servants!
    39: But know this, that if the householder had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have left his house to be broken into.
    40: You also must be ready; for the Son of man is coming at an unexpected hour."
    41: Peter said, "Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?"
    42: And the Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
    43: Blessed is that servant whom his master when he comes will find so doing.
    44: Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
    45: But if that servant says to himself, `My master is delayed in coming,' and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink and get drunk,
    46: the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will punish him, and put him with the unfaithful.
    47: And that servant who knew his master's will, but did not make ready or act according to his will, shall receive a severe beating.
    48: But he who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, shall receive a light beating. Every one to whom much is given, of him will much be required; and of him to whom men commit much they will demand the more.
    49: "I came to cast fire upon the earth; and would that it were already kindled!
    50: I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how I am constrained until it is accomplished!
    51: Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division;
    52: for henceforth in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three;
    53: they will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against her mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law."
    54: He also said to the multitudes, "When you see a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, `A shower is coming'; and so it happens.
    55: And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, `There will be scorching heat'; and it happens.
    56: You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky; but why do you not know how to interpret the present time?
    57: "And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right?
    58: As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison.
    59: I tell you, you will never get out till you have paid the very last copper."

End of day 297.