Day 114:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then Tobias answered him, "Father, I will do everything that you have commanded me;
    2: but how can I obtain the money when I do not know the man?"
    3: Then Tobit gave him the receipt, and said to him, "Find a man to go with you and I will pay him wages as long as I live; and go and get the money."
    4: So he went to look for a man; and he found Raphael, who was an angel,
    5: but Tobias did not know it. Tobias said to him, "Can you go with me to Rages in Media? Are you acquainted with that region?"
    6: The angel replied, "I will go with you; I am familiar with the way, and I have stayed with our brother Gabael."
    7: Then Tobias said to him, "Wait for me, and I shall tell my father."
    8: And he said to him, "Go, and do not delay." So he went in and said to his father, "I have found some one to go with me." He said, "Call him to me, so that I may learn to what tribe he belongs, and whether he is a reliable man to go with you."
    9: So Tobias invited him in; he entered and they greeted each other.
    10: Then Tobit said to him, "My brother, to what tribe and family do you belong? Tell me. "
    11: But he answered, "Are you looking for a tribe and a family or for a man whom you will pay to go with your son?" And Tobit said to him, "I should like to know, my brother, your people and your name."
    12: He replied, "I am Azarias the son of the great Ananias, one of your relatives."
    13: Then Tobit said to him, "You are welcome, my brother. Do not be angry with me because I tried to learn your tribe and family. You are a relative of mine, of a good and noble lineage. For I used to know Ananias and Jathan, the sons of the great Shemaiah, when we went together to Jerusalem to worship and offered the first-born of our flocks and the tithes of our produce. They did not go astray in the error of our brethren. My brother, you come of good stock.
    14: But tell me, what wages am I to pay you -- a drachma a day, and expenses for yourself as for my son?
    15: And besides, I will add to your wages if you both return safe and sound." So they agreed to these terms.
    16: Then he said to Tobias, "Get ready for the journey, and good success to you both." So his son made the preparations for the journey. And his father said to him, "Go with this man; God who dwells in heaven will prosper your way, and may his angel attend you." So they both went out and departed, and the young man's dog was with them.
    17: But Anna, his mother, began to weep, and said to Tobit, "Why have you sent our child away? Is he not the staff of our hands as he goes in and out before us?
    18: Do not add money to money, but consider it as rubbish as compared to our child.
    19: For the life that is given to us by the Lord is enough for us."
    20: And Tobit said to her, "Do not worry, my sister; he will return safe and sound, and your eyes will see him.
    21: For a good angel will go with him; his journey will be successful, and he will come back safe and sound." Tob 5:
    22: So she stopped weeping.

  Chapter 6.

    1: Now as they proceeded on their way they came at evening to the Tigris river and camped there.
    2: Then the young man went down to wash himself. A fish leaped up from the river and would have swallowed the young man;
    3: and the angel said to him, "Catch the fish." So the young man seized the fish and threw it up on the land.
    4: Then the angel said to him, "Cut open the fish and take the heart and liver and gall and put them away safely."
    5: So the young man did as the angel told him; and they roasted and ate the fish. And they both continued on their way until they came near to Ecbatana.
    6: Then the young man said to the angel, "Brother Azarias, of what use is the liver and heart and gall of the fish?"
    7: He replied, "As for the heart and liver, if a demon or evil spirit gives trouble to any one, you make a smoke from these before the man or woman, and that person will never be troubled again.
    8: And as for the gall, anoint with it a man who has white films in his eyes, and he will be cured."
    9: When they approached Ecbatana,
    10: the angel said to the young man, "Brother, today we shall stay with Raguel. He is your relative, and he has an only daughter named Sarah. I will suggest that she be given to you in marriage,
    11: because you are entitled to her and to her inheritance, for you are her only eligible kinsman.
    12: The girl is also beautiful and sensible. Now listen to my plan. I will speak to her father, and as soon as we return from Rages we will celebrate the marriage. For I know that Raguel, according to the law of Moses, cannot give her to another man without incurring the penalty of death, because you rather than any other man are entitled to the inheritance."
    13: Then the young man said to the angel, "Brother Azarias, I have heard that the girl has been given to seven husbands and that each died in the bridal chamber.
    14: Now I am the only son my father has, and I am afraid that if I go in I will die as those before me did, for a demon is in love with her, and he harms no one except those who approach her. So now I fear that I may die and bring the lives of my father and mother to the grave in sorrow on my account. And they have no other son to bury them."
    15: But the angel said to him, "Do you not remember the words with which your father commanded you to take a wife from among your own people? Now listen to me, brother, for she will become your wife; and do not worry about the demon, for this very night she will be given to you in marriage.
    16: When you enter the bridal chamber, you shall take live ashes of incense and lay upon them some of the heart and liver of the fish so as to make a smoke.
    17: Then the demon will smell it and flee away, and will never again return. And when you approach her, rise up, both of you, and cry out to the merciful God, and he will save you and have mercy on you. Do not be afraid, for she was destined for you from eternity. You will save her, and she will go with you, and I suppose that you will have children by her." When Tobias heard these things, he fell in love with her and yearned deeply for her.

  Chapter 7.

    1: When they reached Ecbatana and arrived at the house of Raguel, Sarah met them and greeted them. They returned her greeting, and she brought them into the house.
    2: Then Raguel said to his wife Edna, "How much the young man resembles my cousin Tobit!"
    3: And Raguel asked them, "Where are you from, brethren?" They answered him, "We belong to the sons of Naphtali, who are captives in Nineveh."
    4: So he said to them, "Do you know our brother Tobit?" And they said, "Yes, we do." And he asked them, "Is he in good health?"
    5: They replied, "He is alive and in good health." And Tobias said, "He is my father."
    6: Then Raguel sprang up and kissed him and wept.
    7: And he blessed him and exclaimed, "Son of that good and noble man!" When he heard that Tobit had lost his sight, he was stricken with grief and wept.
    8: And his wife Edna and his daughter Sarah wept. They received them very warmly; and they killed a ram from the flock and set large servings of food before them. Then Tobias said to Raphael, "Brother Azarias, speak of those things which you talked about on the journey, and let the matter be settled."
    9: So he communicated the proposal to Raguel. And Raguel said to Tobias, "Eat, drink, and be merry;
    10: for it is your right to take my child. But let me explain the true situation to you.
    11: I have given my daughter to seven husbands, and when each came to her he died in the night. But for the present be merry." And Tobias said, "I will eat nothing here until you make a binding agreement with me."
    12: So Raguel said, "Take her right now, in accordance with the law. You are her relative, and she is yours. The merciful God will guide you both for the best."
    13: Then he called his daughter Sarah, and taking her by the hand he gave her to Tobias to be his wife, saying, "Here she is; take her according to the law of Moses, and take her with you to your father." And he blessed them.
    14: Next he called his wife Edna, and took a scroll and wrote out the contract; and they set their seals to it.
    15: Then they began to eat.
    16: And Raguel called his wife Edna and said to her, "Sister, make up the other room, and take her into it."
    17: so she did as he said, and took her there; and the girl began to weep. But the mother comforted her daughter in her tears, and said to her,
    18: "Be brave, my child; the Lord of heaven and earth grant you joy in place of this sorrow of yours. Be brave, my daughter."

  Chapter 8.

    1: When they had finished eating, they escorted Tobias in to her.
    2: As he went he remembered the words of Raphael, and he took the live ashes of incense and put the heart and liver of the fish upon them and made a smoke.
    3: And when the demon smelled the odor he fled to the remotest parts of Egypt, and the angel bound him.
    4: When the door was shut and the two were alone, Tobias got up from the bed and said, "Sister, get up, and let us pray that the Lord may have mercy upon us."
    5: And Tobias began to pray, "Blessed art thou, O God of our fathers, and blessed be thy holy and glorious name for ever. Let the heavens and all thy creatures bless thee.
    6: Thou madest Adam and gavest him Eve his wife as a helper and support. From them the race of mankind has sprung. Thou didst say, `It is not good that the man should be alone; let us make a helper for him like himself.'
    7: And now, O Lord, I am not taking this sister of mine because of lust, but with sincerity. Grant that I may find mercy and may grow old together with her."
    8: And she said with him, "Amen."
    9: Then they both went to sleep for the night. But Raguel arose and went and dug a grave,
    10: with the thought, "Perhaps he too will die."
    11: Then Raguel went into his house
    12: and said to his wife Edna, "Send one of the maids to see whether he is alive; and if he is not, let us bury him without any one knowing about it."
    13: So the maid opened the door and went in, and found them both asleep.
    14: And she came out and told them that he was alive.
    15: Then Raguel blessed God and said, "Blessed art thou, O God, with every pure and holy blessing. Let thy saints and all thy creatures bless thee; let all thy angels and thy chosen people bless thee for ever.
    16: Blessed art thou, because thou hast made me glad. It has not happened to me as I expected; but thou hast treated us according to thy great mercy.
    17: Blessed art thou, because thou hast had compassion on two only children. Show them mercy, O Lord; and bring their lives to fulfilment in health and happiness and mercy."
    18: Then he ordered his servants to fill in the grave.
    19: After this he gave a wedding feast for them which lasted fourteen days.
    20: And before the days of the feast were over, Raguel declared by oath to Tobias that he should not leave until the fourteen days of the wedding feast were ended,
    21: that then he should take half of Raguel's property and return in safety to his father, and that the rest would be his "when my wife and I die."

End of day 114.