Day 9:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two maids.
    2: And he put the maids with their children in front, then Leah with her children, and Rachel and Joseph last of all.
    3: He himself went on before them, bowing himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
    4: But Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept.
    5: And when Esau raised his eyes and saw the women and children, he said, "Who are these with you?" Jacob said, "The children whom God has graciously given your servant."
    6: Then the maids drew near, they and their children, and bowed down;
    7: Leah likewise and her children drew near and bowed down; and last Joseph and Rachel drew near, and they bowed down.
    8: Esau said, "What do you mean by all this company which I met?" Jacob answered, "To find favor in the sight of my lord."
    9: But Esau said, "I have enough, my brother; keep what you have for yourself."
    10: Jacob said, "No, I pray you, if I have found favor in your sight, then accept my present from my hand; for truly to see your face is like seeing the face of God, with such favor have you received me.
    11: Accept, I pray you, my gift that is brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough." Thus he urged him, and he took it.
    12: Then Esau said, "Let us journey on our way, and I will go before you."
    13: But Jacob said to him, "My lord knows that the children are frail, and that the flocks and herds giving suck are a care to me; and if they are overdriven for one day, all the flocks will die.
    14: Let my lord pass on before his servant, and I will lead on slowly, according to the pace of the cattle which are before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come to my lord in Se'ir."
    15: So Esau said, "Let me leave with you some of the men who are with me." But he said, "What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord."
    16: So Esau returned that day on his way to Se'ir.
    17: But Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built himself a house, and made booths for his cattle; therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
    18: And Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, on his way from Paddan-aram; and he camped before the city.
    19: And from the sons of Hamor, Shechem's father, he bought for a hundred pieces of money the piece of land on which he had pitched his tent.
    20: There he erected an altar and called it El-El'ohe-Israel.

  Chapter 34.

    1: Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to visit the women of the land;
    2: and when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, he seized her and lay with her and humbled her.
    3: And his soul was drawn to Dinah the daughter of Jacob; he loved the maiden and spoke tenderly to her.
    4: So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, "Get me this maiden for my wife."
    5: Now Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah; but his sons were with his cattle in the field, so Jacob held his peace until they came.
    6: And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
    7: The sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard of it; and the men were indignant and very angry, because he had wrought folly in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter, for such a thing ought not to be done.
    8: But Hamor spoke with them, saying, "The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter; I pray you, give her to him in marriage.
    9: Make marriages with us; give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves.
    10: You shall dwell with us; and the land shall be open to you; dwell and trade in it, and get property in it."
    11: Shechem also said to her father and to her brothers, "Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me I will give.
    12: Ask of me ever so much as marriage present and gift, and I will give according as you say to me; only give me the maiden to be my wife."
    13: The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, because he had defiled their sister Dinah.
    14: They said to them, "We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us.
    15: Only on this condition will we consent to you: that you will become as we are and every male of you be circumcised.
    16: Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to ourselves, and we will dwell with you and become one people.
    17: But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter, and we will be gone."
    18: Their words pleased Hamor and Hamor's son Shechem.
    19: And the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter. Now he was the most honored of all his family.
    20: So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying,
    21: "These men are friendly with us; let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them; let us take their daughters in marriage, and let us give them our daughters.
    22: Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us, to become one people: that every male among us be circumcised as they are circumcised.
    23: Will not their cattle, their property and all their beasts be ours? Only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us."
    24: And all who went out of the gate of his city hearkened to Hamor and his son Shechem; and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city.
    25: On the third day, when they were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, took their swords and came upon the city unawares, and killed all the males.
    26: They slew Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went away.
    27: And the sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because their sister had been defiled;
    28: they took their flocks and their herds, their asses, and whatever was in the city and in the field;
    29: all their wealth, all their little ones and their wives, all that was in the houses, they captured and made their prey.
    30: Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, "You have brought trouble on me by making me odious to the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Per'izzites; my numbers are few, and if they gather themselves against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed, both I and my household."
    31: But they said, "Should he treat our sister as a harlot?"

  Chapter 35.

    1: God said to Jacob, "Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there; and make there an altar to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau."
    2: So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, "Put away the foreign gods that are among you, and purify yourselves, and change your garments;
    3: then let us arise and go up to Bethel, that I may make there an altar to the God who answered me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I have gone."
    4: So they gave to Jacob all the foreign gods that they had, and the rings that were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was near Shechem.
    5: And as they journeyed, a terror from God fell upon the cities that were round about them, so that they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
    6: And Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him,
    7: and there he built an altar, and called the place El-bethel, because there God had revealed himself to him when he fled from his brother.
    8: And Deb'orah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried under an oak below Bethel; so the name of it was called Al'lon-bacuth.
    9: God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan-aram, and blessed him.
    10: And God said to him, "Your name is Jacob; no longer shall your name be called Jacob, but Israel shall be your name." So his name was called Israel.
    11: And God said to him, "I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall spring from you.
    12: The land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac I will give to you, and I will give the land to your descendants after you."
    13: Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him.
    14: And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone; and he poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it.
    15: So Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him, Bethel.
    16: Then they journeyed from Bethel; and when they were still some distance from Ephrath, Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor.
    17: And when she was in her hard labor, the midwife said to her, "Fear not; for now you will have another son."
    18: And as her soul was departing (for she died), she called his name Ben-o'ni; but his father called his name Benjamin.
    19: So Rachel died, and she was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem),
    20: and Jacob set up a pillar upon her grave; it is the pillar of Rachel's tomb, which is there to this day.
    21: Israel journeyed on, and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
    22: While Israel dwelt in that land Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine; and Israel heard of it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve.
    23: The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob's first-born), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Is'sachar, and Zeb'ulun.
    24: The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
    25: The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's maid: Dan and Naph'tali.
    26: The sons of Zilpah, Leah's maid: Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Paddan-aram.
    27: And Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre, or Kir'iath-ar'ba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned.
    28: Now the days of Isaac were a hundred and eighty years.
    29: And Isaac breathed his last; and he died and was gathered to his people, old and full of days; and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.

  Chapter 36.

    1: These are the descendants of Esau (that is, Edom).
    2: Esau took his wives from the Canaanites: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, Oholiba'mah the daughter of Anah the son of Zib'eon the Hivite,
    3: and Bas'emath, Ish'mael's daughter, the sister of Neba'ioth.
    4: And Adah bore to Esau, El'iphaz; Bas'emath bore Reu'el;
    5: and Oholiba'mah bore Je'ush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
    6: Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his cattle, all his beasts, and all his property which he had acquired in the land of Canaan; and he went into a land away from his brother Jacob.
    7: For their possessions were too great for them to dwell together; the land of their sojournings could not support them because of their cattle.
    8: So Esau dwelt in the hill country of Se'ir; Esau is Edom.
    9: These are the descendants of Esau the father of the E'domites in the hill country of Se'ir.
    10: These are the names of Esau's sons: El'iphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reu'el the son of Bas'emath the wife of Esau.
    11: The sons of El'iphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz.
    12: (Timna was a concubine of El'iphaz, Esau's son; she bore Am'alek to El'iphaz.) These are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife.
    13: These are the sons of Reu'el: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Bas'emath, Esau's wife.
    14: These are the sons of Oholiba'mah the daughter of Anah the son of Zib'eon, Esau's wife: she bore to Esau Je'ush, Jalam, and Korah.
    15: These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau. The sons of El'iphaz the first-born of Esau: the chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz,
    16: Korah, Gatam, and Am'alek; these are the chiefs of El'iphaz in the land of Edom; they are the sons of Adah.
    17: These are the sons of Reu'el, Esau's son: the chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah; these are the chiefs of Reu'el in the land of Edom; they are the sons of Bas'emath, Esau's wife.
    18: These are the sons of Oholiba'mah, Esau's wife: the chiefs Je'ush, Jalam, and Korah; these are the chiefs born of Oholiba'mah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
    19: These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs.
    20: These are the sons of Se'ir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zib'eon, Anah,
    21: Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Se'ir in the land of Edom.
    22: The sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
    23: These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Man'ahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
    24: These are the sons of Zib'eon: A'iah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he pastured the asses of Zib'eon his father.
    25: These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholiba'mah the daughter of Anah.
    26: These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
    27: These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Za'avan, and Akan.
    28: These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
    29: These are the chiefs of the Horites: the chiefs Lotan, Shobal, Zib'eon, Anah,
    30: Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, according to their clans in the land of Se'ir.
    31: These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over the Israelites.
    32: Bela the son of Be'or reigned in Edom, the name of his city being Din'habah.
    33: Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
    34: Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Te'manites reigned in his stead.
    35: Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Mid'ian in the country of Moab, reigned in his stead, the name of his city being Avith.
    36: Hadad died, and Samlah of Masre'kah reigned in his stead.
    37: Samlah died, and Shaul of Reho'both on the Euphra'tes reigned in his stead.
    38: Shaul died, and Ba'al-ha'nan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
    39: Ba'al-ha'nan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead, the name of his city being Pau; his wife's name was Mehet'abel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Me'zahab.
    40: These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families and their dwelling places, by their names: the chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
    41: Oholiba'mah, Elah, Pinon,
    42: Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
    43: Mag'diel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom (that is, Esau, the father of Edom), according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession.

End of day 9.