Day 57:

Reading Judges, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now Abim'elech the son of Jerubba'al went to Shechem to his mother's kinsmen and said to them and to the whole clan of his mother's family,
    2: "Say in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem, `Which is better for you, that all seventy of the sons of Jerubba'al rule over you, or that one rule over you?' Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh."
    3: And his mother's kinsmen spoke all these words on his behalf in the ears of all the men of Shechem; and their hearts inclined to follow Abim'elech, for they said, "He is our brother."
    4: And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Ba'al-be'rith with which Abim'elech hired worthless and reckless fellows, who followed him.
    5: And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brothers the sons of Jerubba'al, seventy men, upon one stone; but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubba'al was left, for he hid himself.
    6: And all the citizens of Shechem came together, and all Beth-millo, and they went and made Abim'elech king, by the oak of the pillar at Shechem.
    7: When it was told to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Ger'izim, and cried aloud and said to them, "Listen to me, you men of Shechem, that God may listen to you.
    8: The trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive tree, `Reign over us.'
    9: But the olive tree said to them, `Shall I leave my fatness, by which gods and men are honored, and go to sway over the trees?'
    10: And the trees said to the fig tree, `Come you, and reign over us.'
    11: But the fig tree said to them, `Shall I leave my sweetness and my good fruit, and go to sway over the trees?'
    12: And the trees said to the vine, `Come you, and reign over us.'
    13: But the vine said to them, `Shall I leave my wine which cheers gods and men, and go to sway over the trees?'
    14: Then all the trees said to the bramble, `Come you, and reign over us.'
    15: And the bramble said to the trees, `If in good faith you are anointing me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shade; but if not, let fire come out of the bramble and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
    16: "Now therefore, if you acted in good faith and honor when you made Abim'elech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerubba'al and his house, and have done to him as his deeds deserved --
    17: for my father fought for you, and risked his life, and rescued you from the hand of Mid'ian;
    18: and you have risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy men on one stone, and have made Abim'elech, the son of his maidservant, king over the citizens of Shechem, because he is your kinsman --
    19: if you then have acted in good faith and honor with Jerubba'al and with his house this day, then rejoice in Abim'elech, and let him also rejoice in you;
    20: but if not, let fire come out from Abim'elech, and devour the citizens of Shechem, and Beth-millo; and let fire come out from the citizens of Shechem, and from Beth-millo, and devour Abim'elech."
    21: And Jotham ran away and fled, and went to Beer and dwelt there, for fear of Abim'elech his brother.
    22: Abim'elech ruled over Israel three years.
    23: And God sent an evil spirit between Abim'elech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abim'elech;
    24: that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubba'al might come and their blood be laid upon Abim'elech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brothers.
    25: And the men of Shechem put men in ambush against him on the mountain tops, and they robbed all who passed by them along that way; and it was told Abim'elech.
    26: And Ga'al the son of Ebed moved into Shechem with his kinsmen; and the men of Shechem put confidence in him.
    27: And they went out into the field, and gathered the grapes from their vineyards and trod them, and held festival, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank and reviled Abim'elech.
    28: And Ga'al the son of Ebed said, "Who is Abim'elech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve him? Did not the son of Jerubba'al and Zebul his officer serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? Why then should we serve him?
    29: Would that this people were under my hand! then I would remove Abim'elech. I would say to Abim'elech, `Increase your army, and come out.'"
    30: When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Ga'al the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
    31: And he sent messengers to Abim'elech at Aru'mah, saying, "Behold, Ga'al the son of Ebed and his kinsmen have come to Shechem, and they are stirring up the city against you.
    32: Now therefore, go by night, you and the men that are with you, and lie in wait in the fields.
    33: Then in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, rise early and rush upon the city; and when he and the men that are with him come out against you, you may do to them as occasion offers."
    34: And Abim'elech and all the men that were with him rose up by night, and laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
    35: And Ga'al the son of Ebed went out and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and Abim'elech and the men that were with him rose from the ambush.
    36: And when Ga'al saw the men, he said to Zebul, "Look, men are coming down from the mountain tops!" And Zebul said to him, "You see the shadow of the mountains as if they were men."
    37: Ga'al spoke again and said, "Look, men are coming down from the center of the land, and one company is coming from the direction of the Diviners' Oak."
    38: Then Zebul said to him, "Where is your mouth now, you who said, `Who is Abim'elech, that we should serve him?' Are not these the men whom you despised? Go out now and fight with them."
    39: And Ga'al went out at the head of the men of Shechem, and fought with Abim'elech.
    40: And Abim'elech chased him, and he fled before him; and many fell wounded, up to the entrance of the gate.
    41: And Abim'elech dwelt at Aru'mah; and Zebul drove out Ga'al and his kinsmen, so that they could not live on at Shechem.
    42: On the following day the men went out into the fields. And Abim'elech was told.
    43: He took his men and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the fields; and he looked and saw the men coming out of the city, and he rose against them and slew them.
    44: Abim'elech and the company that was with him rushed forward and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city, while the two companies rushed upon all who were in the fields and slew them.
    45: And Abim'elech fought against the city all that day; he took the city, and killed the people that were in it; and he razed the city and sowed it with salt.
    46: When all the people of the Tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered the stronghold of the house of El-be'rith.
    47: Abim'elech was told that all the people of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together.
    48: And Abim'elech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the men that were with him; and Abim'elech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bundle of brushwood, and took it up and laid it on his shoulder. And he said to the men that were with him, "What you have seen me do, make haste to do, as I have done."
    49: So every one of the people cut down his bundle and following Abim'elech put it against the stronghold, and they set the stronghold on fire over them, so that all the people of the Tower of Shechem also died, about a thousand men and women.
    50: Then Abim'elech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
    51: But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the people of the city fled to it, all the men and women, and shut themselves in; and they went to the roof of the tower.
    52: And Abim'elech came to the tower, and fought against it, and drew near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
    53: And a certain woman threw an upper millstone upon Abim'elech's head, and crushed his skull.
    54: Then he called hastily to the young man his armor-bearer, and said to him, "Draw your sword and kill me, lest men say of me, `A woman killed him.'" And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
    55: And when the men of Israel saw that Abim'elech was dead, they departed every man to his home.
    56: Thus God requited the crime of Abim'elech, which he committed against his father in killing his seventy brothers;
    57: and God also made all the wickedness of the men of Shechem fall back upon their heads, and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubba'al.

  Chapter 10.

    1: After Abim'elech there arose to deliver Israel Tola the son of Pu'ah, son of Dodo, a man of Is'sachar; and he lived at Shamir in the hill country of E'phraim.
    2: And he Judged Israel twenty-three years. Then he died, and was buried at Shamir.
    3: After him arose Ja'ir the Gileadite, who Judged Israel twenty-two years.
    4: And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty asses; and they had thirty cities, called Hav'voth-ja'ir to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
    5: And Ja'ir died, and was buried in Kamon.
    6: And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and served the Ba'als and the Ash'taroth, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the Ammonites, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook the LORD, and did not serve him.
    7: And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the Ammonites,
    8: and they crushed and oppressed the children of Israel that year. For eighteen years they oppressed all the people of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
    9: And the Ammonites crossed the Jordan to fight also against Judah and against Benjamin and against the house of E'phraim; so that Israel was sorely distressed.
    10: And the people of Israel cried to the LORD, saying, "We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God and have served the Ba'als."
    11: And the LORD said to the people of Israel, "Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians and from the Amorites, from the Ammonites and from the Philistines?
    12: The Sido'nians also, and the Amal'ekites, and the Ma'onites, oppressed you; and you cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
    13: Yet you have forsaken me and served other gods; therefore I will deliver you no more.
    14: Go and cry to the gods whom you have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your distress."
    15: And the people of Israel said to the LORD, "We have sinned; do to us whatever seems good to thee; only deliver us, we pray thee, this day."
    16: So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the LORD; and he became indignant over the misery of Israel.
    17: Then the Ammonites were called to arms, and they encamped in Gilead; and the people of Israel came together, and they encamped at Mizpah.
    18: And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said one to another, "Who is the man that will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a harlot. Gilead was the father of Jephthah.
    2: And Gilead's wife also bore him sons; and when his wife's sons grew up, they thrust Jephthah out, and said to him, "You shall not inherit in our father's house; for you are the son of another woman."
    3: Then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and dwelt in the land of Tob; and worthless fellows collected round Jephthah, and went raiding with him.
    4: After a time the Ammonites made war against Israel.
    5: And when the Ammonites made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob;
    6: and they said to Jephthah, "Come and be our leader, that we may fight with the Ammonites."
    7: But Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "Did you not hate me, and drive me out of my father's house? Why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?"
    8: And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "That is why we have turned to you now, that you may go with us and fight with the Ammonites, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
    9: Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "If you bring me home again to fight with the Ammonites, and the LORD gives them over to me, I will be your head."
    10: And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "The LORD will be witness between us; we will surely do as you say."
    11: So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and leader over them; and Jephthah spoke all his words before the LORD at Mizpah.
    12: Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites and said, "What have you against me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?"
    13: And the king of the Ammonites answered the messengers of Jephthah, "Because Israel on coming from Egypt took away my land, from the Arnon to the Jabbok and to the Jordan; now therefore restore it peaceably."
    14: And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the Ammonites
    15: and said to him, "Thus says Jephthah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites,
    16: but when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh.
    17: Israel then sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, `Let us pass, we pray, through your land'; but the king of Edom would not listen. And they sent also to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel remained at Kadesh.
    18: Then they journeyed through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and arrived on the east side of the land of Moab, and camped on the other side of the Arnon; but they did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the boundary of Moab.
    19: Israel then sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, `Let us pass, we pray, through your land to our country.'
    20: But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory; so Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped at Jahaz, and fought with Israel.
    21: And the LORD, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them; so Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites, who inhabited that country.
    22: And they took possession of all the territory of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok and from the wilderness to the Jordan.
    23: So then the LORD, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel; and are you to take possession of them?
    24: Will you not possess what Chemosh your god gives you to possess? And all that the LORD our God has dispossessed before us, we will possess.
    25: Now are you any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever go to war with them?
    26: While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its villages, and in Aro'er and its villages, and in all the cities that are on the banks of the Arnon, three hundred years, why did you not recover them within that time?
    27: I therefore have not sinned against you, and you do me wrong by making war on me; the LORD, the Judge, decide this day between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon."
    28: But the king of the Ammonites did not heed the message of Jephthah which he sent to him.
    29: Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manas'seh, and passed on to Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites.
    30: And Jephthah made a vow to the LORD, and said, "If thou wilt give the Ammonites into my hand,
    31: then whoever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return victorious from the Ammonites, shall be the LORD's, and I will offer him up for a burnt offering."
    32: So Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to fight against them; and the LORD gave them into his hand.
    33: And he smote them from Aro'er to the neighborhood of Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel-keramim, with a very great slaughter. So the Ammonites were subdued before the people of Israel.
    34: Then Jephthah came to his home at Mizpah; and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
    35: And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, "Alas, my daughter! you have brought me very low, and you have become the cause of great trouble to me; for I have opened my mouth to the LORD, and I cannot take back my vow."
    36: And she said to him, "My father, if you have opened your mouth to the LORD, do to me according to what has gone forth from your mouth, now that the LORD has avenged you on your enemies, on the Ammonites."
    37: And she said to her father, "Let this thing be done for me; let me alone two months, that I may go and wander on the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions."
    38: And he said, "Go." And he sent her away for two months; and she departed, she and her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains.
    39: And at the end of two months, she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had made. She had never known a man. And it became a custom in Israel
    40: that the daughters of Israel went year by year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.

  Chapter 12.

    1: The men of E'phraim were called to arms, and they crossed to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, "Why did you cross over to fight against the Ammonites, and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house over you with fire."
    2: And Jephthah said to them, "I and my people had a great feud with the Ammonites; and when I called you, you did not deliver me from their hand.
    3: And when I saw that you would not deliver me, I took my life in my hand, and crossed over against the Ammonites, and the LORD gave them into my hand; why then have you come up to me this day, to fight against me?"
    4: Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought with E'phraim; and the men of Gilead smote E'phraim, because they said, "You are fugitives of E'phraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of E'phraim and Manas'seh."
    5: And the Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the E'phraimites. And when any of the fugitives of E'phraim said, "Let me go over," the men of Gilead said to him, "Are you an E'phraimite?" When he said, "No,"
    6: they said to him, "Then say Shibboleth," and he said, "Sibboleth," for he could not pronounce it right; then they seized him and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at that time forty-two thousand of the E'phraimites.
    7: Jephthah Judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in his city in Gilead.
    8: After him Ibzan of Bethlehem Judged Israel.
    9: He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he gave in marriage outside his clan, and thirty daughters he brought in from outside for his sons. And he Judged Israel seven years.
    10: Then Ibzan died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
    11: After him Elon the Zeb'ulunite Judged Israel; and he Judged Israel ten years.
    12: Then Elon the Zeb'ulunite died, and was buried at Ai'jalon in the land of Zeb'ulun.
    13: After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pira'thonite Judged Israel.
    14: He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy asses; and he Judged Israel eight years.
    15: Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pira'thonite died, and was buried at Pira'thon in the land of E'phraim, in the hill country of the Amal'ekites.

End of day 57.