Day 301:

Reading John, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
    2: He was in the beginning with God;
    3: all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made.
    4: In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
    5: The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
    6: There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
    7: He came for testimony, to bear witness to the light, that all might believe through him.
    8: He was not the light, but came to bear witness to the light.
    9: The true light that enlightens every man was coming into the world.
    10: He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world knew him not.
    11: He came to his own home, and his own people received him not.
    12: But to all who received him, who believed in his name, he gave power to become children of God;
    13: who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
    14: And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth; we have beheld his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father.
    15: (John bore witness to him, and cried, "This was he of whom I said, `He who comes after me ranks before me, for he was before me.'")
    16: And from his fulness have we all received, grace upon grace.
    17: For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
    18: No one has ever seen God; the only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known.
    19: And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?"
    20: He confessed, he did not deny, but confessed, "I am not the Christ."
    21: And they asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not." "Are you the prophet?" And he answered, "No."
    22: They said to him then, "Who are you? Let us have an answer for those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?"
    23: He said, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, `Make straight the way of the Lord,' as the prophet Isaiah said."
    24: Now they had been sent from the Pharisees.
    25: They asked him, "Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?"
    26: John answered them, "I baptize with water; but among you stands one whom you do not know,
    27: even he who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie."
    28: This took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
    29: The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
    30: This is he of whom I said, `After me comes a man who ranks before me, for he was before me.'
    31: I myself did not know him; but for this I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel."
    32: And John bore witness, "I saw the Spirit descend as a dove from heaven, and it remained on him.
    33: I myself did not know him; but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, `He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'
    34: And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God."
    35: The next day again John was standing with two of his disciples;
    36: and he looked at Jesus as he walked, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!"
    37: The two disciples heard him say this, and they followed Jesus.
    38: Jesus turned, and saw them following, and said to them, "What do you seek?" And they said to him, "Rabbi" (which means Teacher), "where are you staying?"
    39: He said to them, "Come and see." They came and saw where he was staying; and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
    40: One of the two who heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
    41: He first found his brother Simon, and said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which means Christ).
    42: He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, "So you are Simon the son of John? You shall be called Cephas" (which means Peter).
    43: The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. And he found Philip and said to him, "Follow me."
    44: Now Philip was from Beth-sa'ida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
    45: Philip found Nathan'a-el, and said to him, "We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
    46: Nathan'a-el said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."
    47: Jesus saw Nathan'a-el coming to him, and said of him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!"
    48: Nathan'a-el said to him, "How do you know me?" Jesus answered him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
    49: Nathan'a-el answered him, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!"
    50: Jesus answered him, "Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You shall see greater things than these."
    51: And he said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man."

  Chapter 2.

    1: On the third day there was a marriage at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there;
    2: Jesus also was invited to the marriage, with his disciples.
    3: When the wine failed, the mother of Jesus said to him, "They have no wine."
    4: And Jesus said to her, "O woman, what have you to do with me? My hour has not yet come."
    5: His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
    6: Now six stone jars were standing there, for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons.
    7: Jesus said to them, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them up to the brim.
    8: He said to them, "Now draw some out, and take it to the steward of the feast." So they took it.
    9: When the steward of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the steward of the feast called the bridegroom
    10: and said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first; and when men have drunk freely, then the poor wine; but you have kept the good wine until now."
    11: This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed in him.
    12: After this he went down to Caper'na-um, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples; and there they stayed for a few days.
    13: The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
    14: In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money-changers at their business.
    15: And making a whip of cords, he drove them all, with the sheep and oxen, out of the temple; and he poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
    16: And he told those who sold the pigeons, "Take these things away; you shall not make my Father's house a house of trade."
    17: His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for thy house will consume me."
    18: The Jews then said to him, "What sign have you to show us for doing this?"
    19: Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
    20: The Jews then said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days?"
    21: But he spoke of the temple of his body.
    22: When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this; and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.
    23: Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs which he did;
    24: but Jesus did not trust himself to them,
    25: because he knew all men and needed no one to bear witness of man; for he himself knew what was in man.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicode'mus, a ruler of the Jews.
    2: This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God; for no one can do these signs that you do, unless God is with him."
    3: Jesus answered him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God."
    4: Nicode'mus said to him, "How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?"
    5: Jesus answered, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
    6: That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
    7: Do not marvel that I said to you, `You must be born anew.'
    8: The wind blows where it wills, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know whence it comes or whither it goes; so it is with every one who is born of the Spirit."
    9: Nicode'mus said to him, "How can this be?"
    10: Jesus answered him, "Are you a teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand this?
    11: Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and bear witness to what we have seen; but you do not receive our testimony.
    12: If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
    13: No one has ascended into heaven but he who descended from heaven, the Son of man.
    14: And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up,
    15: that whoever believes in him may have eternal life."
    16: For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
    17: For God sent the Son into the world, not to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through him.
    18: He who believes in him is not condemned; he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.
    19: And this is the judgment, that the light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
    20: For every one who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed.
    21: But he who does what is true comes to the light, that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been wrought in God.
    22: After this Jesus and his disciples went into the land of Judea; there he remained with them and baptized.
    23: John also was baptizing at Ae'non near Salim, because there was much water there; and people came and were baptized.
    24: For John had not yet been put in prison.
    25: Now a discussion arose between John's disciples and a Jew over purifying.
    26: And they came to John, and said to him, "Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, here he is, baptizing, and all are going to him."
    27: John answered, "No one can receive anything except what is given him from heaven.
    28: You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him.
    29: He who has the bride is the bridegroom; the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice; therefore this joy of mine is now full.
    30: He must increase, but I must decrease."
    31: He who comes from above is above all; he who is of the earth belongs to the earth, and of the earth he speaks; he who comes from heaven is above all.
    32: He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony;
    33: he who receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true.
    34: For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for it is not by measure that he gives the Spirit;
    35: the Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.
    36: He who believes in the Son has eternal life; he who does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God rests upon him.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Now when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
    2: (although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),
    3: he left Judea and departed again to Galilee.
    4: He had to pass through Samar'ia.
    5: So he came to a city of Samar'ia, called Sy'char, near the field that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
    6: Jacob's well was there, and so Jesus, wearied as he was with his journey, sat down beside the well. It was about the sixth hour.
    7: There came a woman of Samar'ia to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink."
    8: For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.
    9: The Samaritan woman said to him, "How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink of me, a woman of Samar'ia?" For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.
    10: Jesus answered her, "If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, `Give me a drink,' you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water."
    11: The woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep; where do you get that living water?
    12: Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, and his sons, and his cattle?"
    13: Jesus said to her, "Every one who drinks of this water will thirst again,
    14: but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst; the water that I shall give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life."
    15: The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw."
    16: Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."
    17: The woman answered him, "I have no husband." Jesus said to her, "You are right in saying, `I have no husband';
    18: for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband; this you said truly."
    19: The woman said to him, "Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.
    20: Our fathers worshiped on this mountain; and you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship."
    21: Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
    22: You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.
    23: But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for such the Father seeks to worship him.
    24: God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth."
    25: The woman said to him, "I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ); when he comes, he will show us all things."
    26: Jesus said to her, "I who speak to you am he."
    27: Just then his disciples came. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but none said, "What do you wish?" or, "Why are you talking with her?"
    28: So the woman left her water jar, and went away into the city, and said to the people,
    29: "Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ?"
    30: They went out of the city and were coming to him.
    31: Meanwhile the disciples besought him, saying, "Rabbi, eat."
    32: But he said to them, "I have food to eat of which you do not know."
    33: So the disciples said to one another, "Has any one brought him food?"
    34: Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work.
    35: Do you not say, `There are yet four months, then comes the harvest'? I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see how the fields are already white for harvest.
    36: He who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together.
    37: For here the saying holds true, `One sows and another reaps.'
    38: I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor; others have labored, and you have entered into their labor."
    39: Many Samaritans from that city believed in him because of the woman's testimony, "He told me all that I ever did."
    40: So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them; and he stayed there two days.
    41: And many more believed because of his word.
    42: They said to the woman, "It is no longer because of your words that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world."
    43: After the two days he departed to Galilee.
    44: For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
    45: So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast.
    46: So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Caper'na-um there was an official whose son was ill.
    47: When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went and begged him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
    48: Jesus therefore said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe."
    49: The official said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies."
    50: Jesus said to him, "Go; your son will live." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went his way.
    51: As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was living.
    52: So he asked them the hour when he began to mend, and they said to him, "Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him."
    53: The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, "Your son will live"; and he himself believed, and all his household.
    54: This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.

End of day 301.