Day 66:

Reading 1-Samuel, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle; and they were gathered at Socoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Aze'kah, in E'phes-dam'mim.
    2: And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and drew up in line of battle against the Philistines.
    3: And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with a valley between them.
    4: And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
    5: He had a helmet of bronze on his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of bronze.
    6: And he had greaves of bronze upon his legs, and a javelin of bronze slung between his shoulders.
    7: And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron; and his shield-bearer went before him.
    8: He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, "Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
    9: If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants; but if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us."
    10: And the Philistine said, "I defy the ranks of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together."
    11: When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
    12: Now David was the son of an Eph'rathite of Bethlehem in Judah, named Jesse, who had eight sons. In the days of Saul the man was already old and advanced in years.
    13: The three eldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eli'ab the first-born, and next to him Abin'adab, and the third Shammah.
    14: David was the youngest; the three eldest followed Saul,
    15: but David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
    16: For forty days the Philistine came forward and took his stand, morning and evening.
    17: And Jesse said to David his son, "Take for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to your brothers;
    18: also take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousand. See how your brothers fare, and bring some token from them."
    19: Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
    20: And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took the provisions, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the encampment as the host was going forth to the battle line, shouting the war cry.
    21: And Israel and the Philistines drew up for battle, army against army.
    22: And David left the things in charge of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the ranks, and went and greeted his brothers.
    23: As he talked with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spoke the same words as before. And David heard him.
    24: All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were much afraid.
    25: And the men of Israel said, "Have you seen this man who has come up? Surely he has come up to defy Israel; and the man who kills him, the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel."
    26: And David said to the men who stood by him, "What shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine, and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?"
    27: And the people answered him in the same way, "So shall it be done to the man who kills him."
    28: Now Eli'ab his eldest brother heard when he spoke to the men; and Eli'ab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, "Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumption, and the evil of your heart; for you have come down to see the battle."
    29: And David said, "What have I done now? Was it not but a word?"
    30: And he turned away from him toward another, and spoke in the same way; and the people answered him again as before.
    31: When the words which David spoke were heard, they repeated them before Saul; and he sent for him.
    32: And David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him; your servant will go and fight with this Philistine."
    33: And Saul said to David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for you are but a youth, and he has been a man of war from his youth."
    34: But David said to Saul, "Your servant used to keep sheep for his father; and when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock,
    35: I went after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth; and if he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him and killed him.
    36: Your servant has killed both lions and bears; and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, seeing he has defied the armies of the living God."
    37: And David said, "The LORD who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine." And Saul said to David, "Go, and the LORD be with you!"
    38: Then Saul clothed David with his armor; he put a helmet of bronze on his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
    39: And David girded his sword over his armor, and he tried in vain to go, for he was not used to them. Then David said to Saul, "I cannot go with these; for I am not used to them." And David put them off.
    40: Then he took his staff in his hand, and chose five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in his shepherd's bag or wallet; his sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine.
    41: And the Philistine came on and drew near to David, with his shield-bearer in front of him.
    42: And when the Philistine looked, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, ruddy and comely in appearance.
    43: And the Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?" And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
    44: The Philistine said to David, "Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field."
    45: Then David said to the Philistine, "You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin; but I come to you in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.
    46: This day the LORD will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down, and cut off your head; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
    47: and that all this assembly may know that the LORD saves not with sword and spear; for the battle is the LORD'S and he will give you into our hand."
    48: When the Philistine arose and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine.
    49: And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone, and slung it, and struck the Philistine on his forehead; the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.
    50: So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine, and killed him; there was no sword in the hand of David.
    51: Then David ran and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword and drew it out of its sheath, and killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
    52: And the men of Israel and Judah rose with a shout and pursued the Philistines as far as Gath and the gates of Ekron, so that the wounded Philistines fell on the way from Sha-ara'im as far as Gath and Ekron.
    53: And the Israelites came back from chasing the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
    54: And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
    55: When Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the commander of the army, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" And Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I cannot tell."
    56: And the king said, "Inquire whose son the stripling is."
    57: And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
    58: And Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David answered, "I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."

  Chapter 18.

    1: When he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
    2: And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
    3: Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
    4: And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword and his bow and his girdle.
    5: And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him; so that Saul set him over the men of war. And this was good in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
    6: As they were coming home, when David returned from slaying the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with timbrels, with songs of joy, and with instruments of music.
    7: And the women sang to one another as they made merry, "Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands."
    8: And Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him; he said, "They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands; and what more can he have but the kingdom?"
    9: And Saul eyed David from that day on.
    10: And on the morrow an evil spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he raved within his house, while David was playing the lyre, as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand;
    11: and Saul cast the spear, for he thought, "I will pin David to the wall." But David evaded him twice.
    12: Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him but had departed from Saul.
    13: So Saul removed him from his presence, and made him a commander of a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
    14: And David had success in all his undertakings; for the LORD was with him.
    15: And when Saul saw that he had great success, he stood in awe of him.
    16: But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
    17: Then Saul said to David, "Here is my elder daughter Merab; I will give her to you for a wife; only be valiant for me and fight the LORD'S battles." For Saul thought, "Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him."
    18: And David said to Saul, "Who am I, and who are my kinsfolk, my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?"
    19: But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to A'driel the Meho'lathite for a wife.
    20: Now Saul's daughter Michal loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
    21: Saul thought, "Let me give her to him, that she may be a snare for him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him." Therefore Saul said to David a second time, "You shall now be my son-in-law."
    22: And Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in private and say, `Behold, the king has delight in you, and all his servants love you; now then become the king's son-in-law.'"
    23: And Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, "Does it seem to you a little thing to become the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and of no repute?"
    24: And the servants of Saul told him, "Thus and so did David speak."
    25: Then Saul said, "Thus shall you say to David, `The king desires no marriage present except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, that he may be avenged of the king's enemies.'" Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
    26: And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. Before the time had expired,
    27: David arose and went, along with his men, and killed two hundred of the Philistines; and David brought their foreskins, which were given in full number to the king, that he might become the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for a wife.
    28: But when Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that all Israel loved him,
    29: Saul was still more afraid of David. So Saul was David's enemy continually.
    30: Then the princes of the Philistines came out to battle, and as often as they came out David had more success than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was highly esteemed.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David.
    2: And Jonathan told David, "Saul my father seeks to kill you; therefore take heed to yourself in the morning, stay in a secret place and hide yourself;
    3: and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak to my father about you; and if I learn anything I will tell you."
    4: And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father, and said to him, "Let not the king sin against his servant David; because he has not sinned against you, and because his deeds have been of good service to you;
    5: for he took his life in his hand and he slew the Philistine, and the LORD wrought a great victory for all Israel. You saw it, and rejoiced; why then will you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?"
    6: And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan; Saul swore, "As the LORD lives, he shall not be put to death."
    7: And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as before.
    8: And there was war again; and David went out and fought with the Philistines, and made a great slaughter among them, so that they fled before him.
    9: Then an evil spirit from the LORD came upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing the lyre.
    10: And Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear; but he eluded Saul, so that he struck the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped.
    11: That night Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him, that he might kill him in the morning. But Michal, David's wife, told him, "If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed."
    12: So Michal let David down through the window; and he fled away and escaped.
    13: Michal took an image and laid it on the bed and put a pillow of goats' hair at its head, and covered it with the clothes.
    14: And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, "He is sick."
    15: Then Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him."
    16: And when the messengers came in, behold, the image was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair at its head.
    17: Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me thus, and let my enemy go, so that he has escaped?" And Michal answered Saul, "He said to me, `Let me go; why should I kill you?'"
    18: Now David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt at Nai'oth.
    19: And it was told Saul, "Behold, David is at Nai'oth in Ramah."
    20: Then Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
    21: When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
    22: Then he himself went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu; and he asked, "Where are Samuel and David?" And one said, "Behold, they are at Nai'oth in Ramah."
    23: And he went from there to Nai'oth in Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and as he went he prophesied, until he came to Nai'oth in Ramah.
    24: And he too stripped off his clothes, and he too prophesied before Samuel, and lay naked all that day and all that night. Hence it is said, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then David fled from Nai'oth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my guilt? And what is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?"
    2: And he said to him, "Far from it! You shall not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small without disclosing it to me; and why should my father hide this from me? It is not so."
    3: But David replied, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and he thinks, `Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.' But truly, as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death."
    4: Then said Jonathan to David, "Whatever you say, I will do for you."
    5: David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit at table with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field till the third day at evening.
    6: If your father misses me at all, then say, `David earnestly asked leave of me to run to Bethlehem his city; for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.'
    7: If he says, `Good!' it will be well with your servant; but if he is angry, then know that evil is determined by him.
    8: Therefore deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a sacred covenant with you. But if there is guilt in me, slay me yourself; for why should you bring me to your father?"
    9: And Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! If I knew that it was determined by my father that evil should come upon you, would I not tell you?"
    10: Then said David to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if your father answers you roughly?"
    11: And Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out into the field." So they both went out into the field.
    12: And Jonathan said to David, "The LORD, the God of Israel, be witness! When I have sounded my father, about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if he is well disposed toward David, shall I not then send and disclose it to you?
    13: But should it please my father to do you harm, the LORD do so to Jonathan, and more also, if I do not disclose it to you, and send you away, that you may go in safety. May the LORD be with you, as he has been with my father.
    14: If I am still alive, show me the loyal love of the LORD, that I may not die;
    15: and do not cut off your loyalty from my house for ever. When the LORD cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth,
    16: let not the name of Jonathan be cut off from the house of David. And may the LORD take vengeance on David's enemies."
    17: And Jonathan made David swear again by his love for him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
    18: Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow is the new moon; and you will be missed, because your seat will be empty.
    19: And on the third day you will be greatly missed; then go to the place where you hid yourself when the matter was in hand, and remain beside yonder stone heap.
    20: And I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
    21: And behold, I will send the lad, saying, `Go, find the arrows.' If I say to the lad, `Look, the arrows are on this side of you, take them,' then you are to come, for, as the LORD lives, it is safe for you and there is no danger.
    22: But if I say to the youth, `Look, the arrows are beyond you,' then go; for the LORD has sent you away.
    23: And as for the matter of which you and I have spoken, behold, the LORD is between you and me for ever."
    24: So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food.
    25: The king sat upon his seat, as at other times, upon the seat by the wall; Jonathan sat opposite, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty.
    26: Yet Saul did not say anything that day; for he thought, "Something has befallen him; he is not clean, surely he is not clean."
    27: But on the second day, the morrow after the new moon, David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why has not the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?"
    28: Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem;
    29: he said, `Let me go; for our family holds a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to be there. So now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away, and see my brothers.' For this reason he has not come to the king's table."
    30: Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse, rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?
    31: For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, neither you nor your kingdom shall be established. Therefore send and fetch him to me, for he shall surely die."
    32: Then Jonathan answered Saul his father, "Why should he be put to death? What has he done?"
    33: But Saul cast his spear at him to smite him; so Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
    34: And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had disgraced him.
    35: In the morning Jonathan went out into the field to the appointment with David, and with him a little lad.
    36: And he said to his lad, "Run and find the arrows which I shoot." As the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
    37: And when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the lad and said, "Is not the arrow beyond you?"
    38: And Jonathan called after the lad, "Hurry, make haste, stay not." So Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
    39: But the lad knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
    40: And Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said to him, "Go and carry them to the city."
    41: And as soon as the lad had gone, David rose from beside the stone heap and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed three times; and they kissed one another, and wept with one another, until David recovered himself.
    42: Then Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, `The LORD shall be between me and you, and between my descendants and your descendants, for ever.'" And he rose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.

End of day 66.