Day 140:

Reading Job, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
    2: "Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me;
    3: when his lamp shone upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness;
    4: as I was in my autumn days, when the friendship of God was upon my tent;
    5: when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me;
    6: when my steps were washed with milk, and the rock poured out for me streams of oil!
    7: When I went out to the gate of the city, when I prepared my seat in the square,
    8: the young men saw me and withdrew, and the aged rose and stood;
    9: the princes refrained from talking, and laid their hand on their mouth;
    10: the voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.
    11: When the ear heard, it called me blessed, and when the eye saw, it approved;
    12: because I delivered the poor who cried, and the fatherless who had none to help him.
    13: The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.
    14: I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; my justice was like a robe and a turban.
    15: I was eyes to the blind, and feet to the lame.
    16: I was a father to the poor, and I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know.
    17: I broke the fangs of the unrighteous, and made him drop his prey from his teeth.
    18: Then I thought, `I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand,
    19: my roots spread out to the waters, with the dew all night on my branches,
    20: my glory fresh with me, and my bow ever new in my hand.'
    21: "Men listened to me, and waited, and kept silence for my counsel.
    22: After I spoke they did not speak again, and my word dropped upon them.
    23: They waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouths as for the spring rain.
    24: I smiled on them when they had no confidence; and the light of my countenance they did not cast down.
    25: I chose their way, and sat as chief, and I dwelt like a king among his troops, like one who comforts mourners.

  Chapter 30.

    1: "But now they make sport of me, men who are younger than I, whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my flock.
    2: What could I gain from the strength of their hands, men whose vigor is gone?
    3: Through want and hard hunger they gnaw the dry and desolate ground;
    4: they pick mallow and the leaves of bushes, and to warm themselves the roots of the broom.
    5: They are driven out from among men; they shout after them as after a thief.
    6: In the gullies of the torrents they must dwell, in holes of the earth and of the rocks.
    7: Among the bushes they bray; under the nettles they huddle together.
    8: A senseless, a disreputable brood, they have been whipped out of the land.
    9: "And now I have become their song, I am a byword to them.
    10: They abhor me, they keep aloof from me; they do not hesitate to spit at the sight of me.
    11: Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me, they have cast off restraint in my presence.
    12: On my right hand the rabble rise, they drive me forth, they cast up against me their ways of destruction.
    13: They break up my path, they promote my calamity; no one restrains them.
    14: As through a wide breach they come; amid the crash they roll on.
    15: Terrors are turned upon me; my honor is pursued as by the wind, and my prosperity has passed away like a cloud.
    16: "And now my soul is poured out within me; days of affliction have taken hold of me.
    17: The night racks my bones, and the pain that gnaws me takes no rest.
    18: With violence it seizes my garment; it binds me about like the collar of my tunic.
    19: God has cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes.
    20: I cry to thee and thou dost not answer me; I stand, and thou dost not heed me.
    21: Thou hast turned cruel to me; with the might of thy hand thou dost persecute me.
    22: Thou liftest me up on the wind, thou makest me ride on it, and thou tossest me about in the roar of the storm.
    23: Yea, I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all living.
    24: "Yet does not one in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand, and in his disaster cry for help?
    25: Did not I weep for him whose day was hard? Was not my soul grieved for the poor?
    26: But when I looked for good, evil came; and when I waited for light, darkness came.
    27: My heart is in turmoil, and is never still; days of affliction come to meet me.
    28: I go about blackened, but not by the sun; I stand up in the assembly, and cry for help.
    29: I am a brother of jackals, and a companion of ostriches.
    30: My skin turns black and falls from me, and my bones burn with heat.
    31: My lyre is turned to mourning, and my pipe to the voice of those who weep.

  Chapter 31.

    1: "I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I look upon a virgin?
    2: What would be my portion from God above, and my heritage from the Almighty on high?
    3: Does not calamity befall the unrighteous, and disaster the workers of iniquity?
    4: Does not he see my ways, and number all my steps?
    5: "If I have walked with falsehood, and my foot has hastened to deceit;
    6: (Let me be weighed in a just balance, and let God know my integrity!)
    7: if my step has turned aside from the way, and my heart has gone after my eyes, and if any spot has cleaved to my hands;
    8: then let me sow, and another eat; and let what grows for me be rooted out.
    9: "If my heart has been enticed to a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door;
    10: then let my wife grind for another, and let others bow down upon her.
    11: For that would be a heinous crime; that would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges;
    12: for that would be a fire which consumes unto Abaddon, and it would burn to the root all my increase.
    13: "If I have rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant, when they brought a complaint against me;
    14: what then shall I do when God rises up? When he makes inquiry, what shall I answer him?
    15: Did not he who made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb?
    16: "If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
    17: or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it
    18: (for from his youth I reared him as a father, and from his mother's womb I guided him);
    19: if I have seen any one perish for lack of clothing, or a poor man without covering;
    20: if his loins have not blessed me, and if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;
    21: if I have raised my hand against the fatherless, because I saw help in the gate;
    22: then let my shoulder blade fall from my shoulder, and let my arm be broken from its socket.
    23: For I was in terror of calamity from God, and I could not have faced his majesty.
    24: "If I have made gold my trust, or called fine gold my confidence;
    25: if I have rejoiced because my wealth was great, or because my hand had gotten much;
    26: if I have looked at the sun when it shone, or the moon moving in splendor,
    27: and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my mouth has kissed my hand;
    28: this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges, for I should have been false to God above.
    29: "If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him that hated me, or exulted when evil overtook him
    30: (I have not let my mouth sin by asking for his life with a curse);
    31: if the men of my tent have not said, `Who is there that has not been filled with his meat?'
    32: (the sojourner has not lodged in the street; I have opened my doors to the wayfarer);
    33: if I have concealed my transgressions from men, by hiding my iniquity in my bosom,
    34: because I stood in great fear of the multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and did not go out of doors --
    35: Oh, that I had one to hear me! (Here is my signature! let the Almighty answer me!) Oh, that I had the indictment written by my adversary!
    36: Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; I would bind it on me as a crown;
    37: I would give him an account of all my steps; like a prince I would approach him.
    38: "If my land has cried out against me, and its furrows have wept together;
    39: if I have eaten its yield without payment, and caused the death of its owners;
    40: let thorns grow instead of wheat, and foul weeds instead of barley." The words of Job are ended.

  Chapter 32.

    1: So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
    2: Then Eli'hu the son of Bar'achel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, became angry. He was angry at Job because he justified himself rather than God;
    3: he was angry also at Job's three friends because they had found no answer, although they had declared Job to be in the wrong.
    4: Now Eli'hu had waited to speak to Job because they were older than he.
    5: And when Eli'hu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, he became angry.
    6: And Eli'hu the son of Bar'achel the Buzite answered: "I am young in years, and you are aged; therefore I was timid and afraid to declare my opinion to you.
    7: I said, `Let days speak, and many years teach wisdom.'
    8: But it is the spirit in a man, the breath of the Almighty, that makes him understand.
    9: It is not the old that are wise, nor the aged that understand what is right.
    10: Therefore I say, `Listen to me; let me also declare my opinion.'
    11: "Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your wise sayings, while you searched out what to say.
    12: I gave you my attention, and, behold, there was none that confuted Job, or that answered his words, among you.
    13: Beware lest you say, `We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not man.'
    14: He has not directed his words against me, and I will not answer him with your speeches.
    15: "They are discomfited, they answer no more; they have not a word to say.
    16: And shall I wait, because they do not speak, because they stand there, and answer no more?
    17: I also will give my answer; I also will declare my opinion.
    18: For I am full of words, the spirit within me constrains me.
    19: Behold, my heart is like wine that has no vent; like new wineskins, it is ready to burst.
    20: I must speak, that I may find relief; I must open my lips and answer.
    21: I will not show partiality to any person or use flattery toward any man.
    22: For I do not know how to flatter, else would my Maker soon put an end to me.

End of day 140.