Day 200:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: All wisdom comes from the Lord and is with him for ever.
    2: The sand of the sea, the drops of rain, and the days of eternity -- who can count them?
    3: The height of heaven, the breadth of the earth, the abyss, and wisdom -- who can search them out?
    4: Wisdom was created before all things, and prudent understanding from eternity.
    5: The root of wisdom -- to whom has it been revealed? Her clever devices -- who knows them?
    6: There is One who is wise, greatly to be feared, sitting upon his throne.
    7: The Lord himself created wisdom; he saw her and apportioned her, he poured her out upon all his works.
    8: She dwells with all flesh according to his gift, and he supplied her to those who love him.
    9: The fear of the Lord is glory and exultation, and gladness and a crown of rejoicing.
    10: The fear of the Lord delights the heart, and gives gladness and joy and long life.
    11: With him who fears the Lord it will go well at the end; on the day of his death he will be blessed.
    12: To fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; she is created with the faithful in the womb.
    13: She made among men an eternal foundation, and among their descendants she will be trusted.
    14: To fear the Lord is wisdom's full measure; she satisfies men with her fruits;
    15: she fills their whole house with desirable goods, and their storehouses with her produce.
    16: The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom, making peace and perfect health to flourish.
    17: He saw her and apportioned her; he rained down knowledge and discerning comprehension, and he exalted the glory of those who held her fast.
    18: To fear the Lord is the root of wisdom, and her branches are long life.
    19: Unrighteous anger cannot be justified, for a man's anger tips the scale to his ruin.
    20: A patient man will endure until the right moment, and then joy will burst forth for him.
    21: He will hide his words until the right moment, and the lips of many will tell of his good sense.
    22: In the treasuries of wisdom are wise sayings, but godliness is an abomination to a sinner.
    23: If you desire wisdom, keep the commandments, and the Lord will supply it for you.
    24: For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and instruction, and he delights in fidelity and meekness.
    25: Do not disobey the fear of the Lord; do not approach him with a divided mind.
    26: Be not a hypocrite in men's sight, and keep watch over your lips.
    27: Do not exalt yourself lest you fall, and thus bring dishonor upon yourself. The Lord will reveal your secrets and cast you down in the midst of the congregation, because you did not come in the fear of the Lord, and your heart was full of deceit.

  Chapter 2.

    1: My son, if you come forward to serve the Lord, prepare yourself for temptation.
    2: Set your heart right and be steadfast, and do not be hasty in time of calamity.
    3: Cleave to him and do not depart, that you may be honored at the end of your life.
    4: Accept whatever is brought upon you, and in changes that humble you be patient.
    5: For gold is tested in the fire, and acceptable men in the furnace of humiliation.
    6: Trust in him, and he will help you; make your ways straight, and hope in him.
    7: You who fear the Lord, wait for his mercy; and turn not aside, lest you fall.
    8: You who fear the Lord, trust in him, and your reward will not fail;
    9: you who fear the Lord, hope for good things, for everlasting joy and mercy.
    10: Consider the ancient generations and see: who ever trusted in the Lord and was put to shame? Or who ever persevered in the fear of the Lord and was forsaken? Or who ever called upon him and was overlooked?
    11: For the Lord is compassionate and merciful; he forgives sins and saves in time of affliction.
    12: Woe to timid hearts and to slack hands, and to the sinner who walks along two ways!
    13: Woe to the faint heart, for it has no trust! Therefore it will not be sheltered.
    14: Woe to you who have lost your endurance! What will you do when the Lord punishes you?
    15: Those who fear the Lord will not disobey his words, and those who love him will keep his ways.
    16: Those who fear the Lord will seek his approval, and those who love him will be filled with the law.
    17: Those who fear the Lord will prepare their hearts, and will humble themselves before him.
    18: Let us fall into the hands of the Lord, but not into the hands of men; for as his majesty is, so also is his mercy.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Listen to me your father, O children; and act accordingly, that you may be kept in safety.
    2: For the Lord honored the father above the children, and he confirmed the right of the mother over her sons.
    3: Whoever honors his father atones for sins,
    4: and whoever glorifies his mother is like one who lays up treasure.
    5: Whoever honors his father will be gladdened by his own children, and when he prays he will be heard.
    6: Whoever glorifies his father will have long life, and whoever obeys the Lord will refresh his mother;
    7: he will serve his parents as his masters.
    8: Honor your father by word and deed, that a blessing from him may come upon you.
    9: For a father's blessing strengthens the houses of the children, but a mother's curse uproots their foundations.
    10: Do not glorify yourself by dishonoring your father, for your father's dishonor is no glory to you.
    11: For a man's glory comes from honoring his father, and it is a disgrace for children not to respect their mother.
    12: O son, help your father in his old age, and do not grieve him as long as he lives;
    13: even if he is lacking in understanding, show forbearance; in all your strength do not despise him.
    14: For kindness to a father will not be forgotten, and against your sins it will be credited to you;
    15: in the day of your affliction it will be remembered in your favor; as frost in fair weather, your sins will melt away.
    16: Whoever forsakes his father is like a blasphemer, and whoever angers his mother is cursed by the Lord.
    17: My son, perform your tasks in meekness; then you will be loved by those whom God accepts.
    18: The greater you are, the more you must humble yourself; so you will find favor in the sight of the Lord.
    19: For great is the might of the Lord; he is glorified by the humble.
    20: Seek not what is too difficult for you, nor investigate what is beyond your power.
    21: Reflect upon what has been assigned to you, for you do not need what is hidden.
    22: Do not meddle in what is beyond your tasks, for matters too great for human understanding have been shown you.
    23: For their hasty judgment has led many astray, and wrong opinion has caused their thoughts to slip.
    24: A stubborn mind will be afflicted at the end, and whoever loves danger will perish by it.
    25: A stubborn mind will be burdened by troubles, and the sinner will heap sin upon sin.
    26: The affliction of the proud has no healing, for a plant of wickedness has taken root in him.
    27: The mind of the intelligent man will ponder a parable, and an attentive ear is the wise man's desire.
    28: Water extinguishes a blazing fire: so almsgiving atones for sin.
    29: Whoever requites favors gives thought to the future; at the moment of his falling he will find support.

  Chapter 4.

    1: My son, deprive not the poor of his living, and do not keep needy eyes waiting.
    2: Do not grieve the one who is hungry, nor anger a man in want.
    3: Do not add to the troubles of an angry mind, nor delay your gift to a beggar.
    4: Do not reject an afflicted suppliant, nor turn your face away from the poor.
    5: Do not avert your eye from the needy, nor give a man occasion to curse you;
    6: for if in bitterness of soul he calls down a curse upon you, his Creator will hear his prayer.
    7: Make yourself beloved in the congregation; bow your head low to a great man.
    8: Incline your ear to the poor, and answer him peaceably and gently.
    9: Deliver him who is wronged from the hand of the wrongdoer; and do not be fainthearted in judging a case.
    10: Be like a father to orphans, and instead of a husband to their mother; you will then be like a son of the Most High, and he will love you more than does your mother.
    11: Wisdom exalts her sons and gives help to those who seek her.
    12: Whoever loves her loves life, and those who seek her early will be filled with joy.
    13: Whoever holds her fast will obtain glory, and the Lord will bless the place she enters.
    14: Those who serve her will minister to the Holy One; the Lord loves those who love her.
    15: He who obeys her will judge the nations, and whoever gives heed to her will dwell secure.
    16: If he has faith in her he will obtain her; and his descendants will remain in possession of her.
    17: For at first she will walk with him on tortuous paths, she will bring fear and cowardice upon him, and will torment him by her discipline until she trusts him, and she will test him with her ordinances.
    18: Then she will come straight back to him and gladden him, and will reveal her secrets to him.
    19: If he goes astray she will forsake him, and hand him over to his ruin.
    20: Observe the right time, and beware of evil; and do not bring shame on yourself.
    21: For there is a shame which brings sin, and there is a shame which is glory and favor.
    22: Do not show partiality, to your own harm, or deference, to your downfall.
    23: Do not refrain from speaking at the crucial time, and do not hide your wisdom.
    24: For wisdom is known through speech, and education through the words of the tongue.
    25: Never speak against the truth, but be mindful of your ignorance.
    26: Do not be ashamed to confess your sins, and do not try to stop the current of a river.
    27: Do not subject yourself to a foolish fellow, nor show partiality to a ruler.
    28: Strive even to death for the truth and the Lord God will fight for you.
    29: Do not be reckless in your speech, or sluggish and remiss in your deeds.
    30: Do not be like a lion in your home, nor be a faultfinder with your servants.
    31: Let not your hand be extended to receive, but withdrawn when it is time to repay.

End of day 200.