Day 123:

Reading Esther, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now in the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's command and edict were about to be executed, on the very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to get the mastery over them, but which had been changed to a day when the Jews should get the mastery over their foes,
    2: the Jews gathered in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hands on such as sought their hurt. And no one could make a stand against them, for the fear of them had fallen upon all peoples.
    3: All the princes of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and the royal officials also helped the Jews, for the fear of Mordecai had fallen upon them.
    4: For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame spread throughout all the provinces; for the man Mordecai grew more and more powerful.
    5: So the Jews smote all their enemies with the sword, slaughtering, and destroying them, and did as they pleased to those who hated them.
    6: In Susa the capital itself the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men,
    7: and also slew Par-shan-datha and Dalphon and Aspatha
    8: and Poratha and Adalia and Aridatha
    9: and Parmashta and Arisai and Aridai and Vaizatha,
    10: the ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews; but they laid no hand on the plunder.
    11: That very day the number of those slain in Susa the capital was reported to the king.
    12: And the king said to Queen Esther, "In Susa the capital the Jews have slain five hundred men and also the ten sons of Haman. What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your petition? It shall be granted you. And what further is your request? It shall be fulfilled."
    13: And Esther said, "If it please the king, let the Jews who are in Susa be allowed tomorrow also to do according to this day's edict. And let the ten sons of Haman be hanged on the gallows."
    14: So the king commanded this to be done; a decree was issued in Susa, and the ten sons of Haman were hanged.
    15: The Jews who were in Susa gathered also on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and they slew three hundred men in Susa; but they laid no hands on the plunder.
    16: Now the other Jews who were in the king's provinces also gathered to defend their lives, and got relief from their enemies, and slew seventy-five thousand of those who hated them; but they laid no hands on the plunder.
    17: This was on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made that a day of feasting and gladness.
    18: But the Jews who were in Susa gathered on the thirteenth day and on the fourteenth, and rested on the fifteenth day, making that a day of feasting and gladness.
    19: Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in the open towns, hold the fourteenth day of the month of Adar as a day for gladness and feasting and holiday-making, and a day on which they send choice portions to one another.
    20: And Mordecai recorded these things, and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both near and far,
    21: enjoining them that they should keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and also the fifteenth day of the same, year by year,
    22: as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days for sending choice portions to one another and gifts to the poor.
    23: So the Jews undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordecai had written to them.
    24: For Haman the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them, and had cast Pur, that is the lot, to crush and destroy them;
    25: but when Esther came before the king, he gave orders in writing that his wicked plot which he had devised against the Jews should come upon his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
    26: Therefore they called these days Purim, after the term Pur. And therefore, because of all that was written in this letter, and of what they had faced in this matter, and of what had befallen them,
    27: the Jews ordained and took it upon themselves and their descendants and all who joined them, that without fail they would keep these two days according to what was written and at the time appointed every year,
    28: that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, in every family, province, and city, and that these days of Purim should never fall into disuse among the Jews, nor should the commemoration of these days cease among their descendants.
    29: Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew gave full written authority, confirming this second letter about Purim.
    30: Letters were sent to all the Jews, to the hundred and twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, in words of peace and truth,
    31: that these days of Purim should be observed at their appointed seasons, as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther enjoined upon the Jews, and as they had laid down for themselves and for their descendants, with regard to their fasts and their lamenting.
    32: The command of Queen Esther fixed these practices of Purim, and it was recorded in writing.

  Chapter 10.

    1: King Ahasuerus laid tribute on the land and on the coastlands of the sea.
    2: And all the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai, to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?
    3: For Mordecai the Jew was next in rank to King Ahasuerus, and he was great among the Jews and popular with the multitude of his brethren, for he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people.
    4: And Mordecai said, "These things have come from God.
    5: For I remember the dream that I had concerning these matters, and none of them has failed to be fulfilled.
    6: The tiny spring which became a river, and there was light and the sun and abundant water the river is Esther, whom the king married and made queen.
    7: The two dragons are Haman and myself.
    8: The nations are those that gathered to destroy the name of the Jews.
    9: And my nation, this is Israel, who cried out to God and were saved. The Lord has saved his people; the Lord has delivered us from all these evils; God has done great signs and wonders, which have not occurred among the nations.
    10: For this purpose he made two lots, one for the people of God and one for all the nations.
    11: And these two lots came to the hour and moment and day of decision before God and among all the nations.
    12: And God remembered his people and vindicated his inheritance.
    13: So they will observe these days in the month of Adar, on the fourteenth and fifteenth of that month, with an assembly and joy and gladness before God, from generation to generation for ever among his people Israel."

  Chapter 11.

    1: In the fourth year of the reign of Ptolemy and Cleopatra, Dositheus, who said that he was a priest and a Levite, and Ptolemy his son brought to Egypt the preceding Letter of Purim, which they said was genuine and had been translated by Lysimachus the son of Ptolemy, one of the residents of Jerusalem.
    2: In the second year of the reign of Artaxerxes the Great, on the first day of Nisan, Mordecai the son of Jair, son of Shimei, son of Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin, had a dream.
    3: He was a Jew, dwelling in the city of Susa, a great man, serving in the court of the king.
    4: He was one of the captives whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had brought from Jerusalem with Jeconiah king of Judea. And this was his dream:
    5: Behold, noise and confusion, thunders and earthquake, tumult upon the earth!
    6: And behold, two great dragons came forward, both ready to fight, and they roared terribly.
    7: And at their roaring every nation prepared for war, to fight against the nation of the righteous.
    8: And behold, a day of darkness and gloom, tribulation and distress, affliction and great tumult upon the earth!
    9: And the whole righteous nation was troubled; they feared the evils that threatened them, and were ready to perish.
    10: Then they cried to God; and from their cry, as though from a tiny spring there came a great river, with abundant water;
    11: light came, and the sun rose, and the lowly were exalted and consumed those held in honor.
    12: Mordecai saw in his dream what God had determined to do, and after he awoke he had it on his mind and sought all day to understand it in every detail.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now Mordecai took his rest in the courtyard with Gabatha and Tharra, the two eunuchs of the king who kept watch in the courtyard.
    2: He overheard their conversation their conversation and inquired into their purposes, and learned that they were preparing to lay hands upon Artaxerxes the king; and he informed the king concerning them.
    3: Then the king examined the two eunuchs, and when they confessed they were led to execution,
    4: The king made a permanent record of these things, and Mordecai wrote an account of them.
    5: And the king ordered Mordecai to serve in the court and rewarded him for these things.
    6: But Haman, the son of Hammedatha, a Bougaean, was in great honor with the king, and he sought to injure Mordecai and his people because of the two eunuchs of the king.

End of day 123.