Day 8:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: Then Jacob went on his journey, and came to the land of the people of the east.
    2: As he looked, he saw a well in the field, and lo, three flocks of sheep lying beside it; for out of that well the flocks were watered. The stone on the well's mouth was large,
    3: and when all the flocks were gathered there, the shepherds would roll the stone from the mouth of the well, and water the sheep, and put the stone back in its place upon the mouth of the well.
    4: Jacob said to them, "My brothers, where do you come from?" They said, "We are from Haran."
    5: He said to them, "Do you know Laban the son of Nahor?" They said, "We know him."
    6: He said to them, "Is it well with him?" They said, "It is well; and see, Rachel his daughter is coming with the sheep!"
    7: He said, "Behold, it is still high day, it is not time for the animals to be gathered together; water the sheep, and go, pasture them."
    8: But they said, "We cannot until all the flocks are gathered together, and the stone is rolled from the mouth of the well; then we water the sheep."
    9: While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep; for she kept them.
    10: Now when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, Jacob went up and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
    11: Then Jacob kissed Rachel, and wept aloud.
    12: And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's kinsman, and that he was Rebekah's son; and she ran and told her father.
    13: When Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, he ran to meet him, and embraced him and kissed him, and brought him to his house. Jacob told Laban all these things,
    14: and Laban said to him, "Surely you are my bone and my flesh!" And he stayed with him a month.
    15: Then Laban said to Jacob, "Because you are my kinsman, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be?"
    16: Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
    17: Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful and lovely.
    18: Jacob loved Rachel; and he said, "I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter Rachel."
    19: Laban said, "It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to any other man; stay with me."
    20: So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love he had for her.
    21: Then Jacob said to Laban, "Give me my wife that I may go in to her, for my time is completed."
    22: So Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
    23: But in the evening he took his daughter Leah and brought her to Jacob; and he went in to her.
    24: (Laban gave his maid Zilpah to his daughter Leah to be her maid.)
    25: And in the morning, behold, it was Leah; and Jacob said to Laban, "What is this you have done to me? Did I not serve with you for Rachel? Why then have you deceived me?"
    26: Laban said, "It is not so done in our country, to give the younger before the first-born.
    27: Complete the week of this one, and we will give you the other also in return for serving me another seven years."
    28: Jacob did so, and completed her week; then Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to wife.
    29: (Laban gave his maid Bilhah to his daughter Rachel to be her maid.)
    30: So Jacob went in to Rachel also, and he loved Rachel more than Leah, and served Laban for another seven years.
    31: When the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb; but Rachel was barren.
    32: And Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben; for she said, "Because the LORD has looked upon my affliction; surely now my husband will love me."
    33: She conceived again and bore a son, and said, "Because the LORD has heard that I am hated, he has given me this son also"; and she called his name Simeon.
    34: Again she conceived and bore a son, and said, "Now this time my husband will be joined to me, because I have borne him three sons"; therefore his name was called Levi.
    35: And she conceived again and bore a son, and said, "This time I will praise the LORD"; therefore she called his name Judah; then she ceased bearing.

  Chapter 30.

    1: When Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, she envied her sister; and she said to Jacob, "Give me children, or I shall die!"
    2: Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, "Am I in the place of God, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?"
    3: Then she said, "Here is my maid Bilhah; go in to her, that she may bear upon my knees, and even I may have children through her."
    4: So she gave him her maid Bilhah as a wife; and Jacob went in to her.
    5: And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son.
    6: Then Rachel said, "God has judged me, and has also heard my voice and given me a son"; therefore she called his name Dan.
    7: Rachel's maid Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son.
    8: Then Rachel said, "With mighty wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister, and have prevailed"; so she called his name Naph'tali.
    9: When Leah saw that she had ceased bearing children, she took her maid Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife.
    10: Then Leah's maid Zilpah bore Jacob a son.
    11: And Leah said, "Good fortune!" so she called his name Gad.
    12: Leah's maid Zilpah bore Jacob a second son.
    13: And Leah said, "Happy am I! For the women will call me happy"; so she called his name Asher.
    14: In the days of wheat harvest Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, "Give me, I pray, some of your son's mandrakes."
    15: But she said to her, "Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you take away my son's mandrakes also?" Rachel said, "Then he may lie with you tonight for your son's mandrakes."
    16: When Jacob came from the field in the evening, Leah went out to meet him, and said, "You must come in to me; for I have hired you with my son's mandrakes." So he lay with her that night.
    17: And God hearkened to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son.
    18: Leah said, "God has given me my hire because I gave my maid to my husband"; so she called his name Is'sachar.
    19: And Leah conceived again, and she bore Jacob a sixth son.
    20: Then Leah said, "God has endowed me with a good dowry; now my husband will honor me, because I have borne him six sons"; so she called his name Zeb'ulun.
    21: Afterwards she bore a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
    22: Then God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her and opened her womb.
    23: She conceived and bore a son, and said, "God has taken away my reproach";
    24: and she called his name Joseph, saying, "May the LORD add to me another son!"
    25: When Rachel had borne Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, "Send me away, that I may go to my own home and country.
    26: Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, and let me go; for you know the service which I have given you."
    27: But Laban said to him, "If you will allow me to say so, I have learned by divination that the LORD has blessed me because of you;
    28: name your wages, and I will give it."
    29: Jacob said to him, "You yourself know how I have served you, and how your cattle have fared with me.
    30: For you had little before I came, and it has increased abundantly; and the LORD has blessed you wherever I turned. But now when shall I provide for my own household also?"
    31: He said, "What shall I give you?" Jacob said, "You shall not give me anything; if you will do this for me, I will again feed your flock and keep it:
    32: let me pass through all your flock today, removing from it every speckled and spotted sheep and every black lamb, and the spotted and speckled among the goats; and such shall be my wages.
    33: So my honesty will answer for me later, when you come to look into my wages with you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and black among the lambs, if found with me, shall be counted stolen."
    34: Laban said, "Good! Let it be as you have said."
    35: But that day Laban removed the he-goats that were striped and spotted, and all the she-goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white on it, and every lamb that was black, and put them in charge of his sons;
    36: and he set a distance of three days' journey between himself and Jacob; and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flock.
    37: Then Jacob took fresh rods of poplar and almond and plane, and peeled white streaks in them, exposing the white of the rods.
    38: He set the rods which he had peeled in front of the flocks in the runnels, that is, the watering troughs, where the flocks came to drink. And since they bred when they came to drink,
    39: the flocks bred in front of the rods and so the flocks brought forth striped, speckled, and spotted.
    40: And Jacob separated the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the striped and all the black in the flock of Laban; and he put his own droves apart, and did not put them with Laban's flock.
    41: Whenever the stronger of the flock were breeding Jacob laid the rods in the runnels before the eyes of the flock, that they might breed among the rods,
    42: but for the feebler of the flock he did not lay them there; so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
    43: Thus the man grew exceedingly rich, and had large flocks, maidservants and menservants, and camels and asses.

  Chapter 31.

    1: Now Jacob heard that the sons of Laban were saying, "Jacob has taken all that was our father's; and from what was our father's he has gained all this wealth."
    2: And Jacob saw that Laban did not regard him with favor as before.
    3: Then the LORD said to Jacob, "Return to the land of your fathers and to your kindred, and I will be with you."
    4: So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah into the field where his flock was,
    5: and said to them, "I see that your father does not regard me with favor as he did before. But the God of my father has been with me.
    6: You know that I have served your father with all my strength;
    7: yet your father has cheated me and changed my wages ten times, but God did not permit him to harm me.
    8: If he said, `The spotted shall be your wages,' then all the flock bore spotted; and if he said, `The striped shall be your wages,' then all the flock bore striped.
    9: Thus God has taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me.
    10: In the mating season of the flock I lifted up my eyes, and saw in a dream that the he-goats which leaped upon the flock were striped, spotted, and mottled.
    11: Then the angel of God said to me in the dream, `Jacob,' and I said, `Here I am!'
    12: And he said, `Lift up your eyes and see, all the goats that leap upon the flock are striped, spotted, and mottled; for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you.
    13: I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar and made a vow to me. Now arise, go forth from this land, and return to the land of your birth.'"
    14: Then Rachel and Leah answered him, "Is there any portion or inheritance left to us in our father's house?
    15: Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and he has been using up the money given for us.
    16: All the property which God has taken away from our father belongs to us and to our children; now then, whatever God has said to you, do."
    17: So Jacob arose, and set his sons and his wives on camels;
    18: and he drove away all his cattle, all his livestock which he had gained, the cattle in his possession which he had acquired in Paddan-aram, to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac.
    19: Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole her father's household gods.
    20: And Jacob outwitted Laban the Aramean, in that he did not tell him that he intended to flee.
    21: He fled with all that he had, and arose and crossed the Euphra'tes, and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead.
    22: When it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled,
    23: he took his kinsmen with him and pursued him for seven days and followed close after him into the hill country of Gilead.
    24: But God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream by night, and said to him, "Take heed that you say not a word to Jacob, either good or bad."
    25: And Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his kinsmen encamped in the hill country of Gilead.
    26: And Laban said to Jacob, "What have you done, that you have cheated me, and carried away my daughters like captives of the sword?
    27: Why did you flee secretly, and cheat me, and did not tell me, so that I might have sent you away with mirth and songs, with tambourine and lyre?
    28: And why did you not permit me to kiss my sons and my daughters farewell? Now you have done foolishly.
    29: It is in my power to do you harm; but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, `Take heed that you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad.'
    30: And now you have gone away because you longed greatly for your father's house, but why did you steal my gods?"
    31: Jacob answered Laban, "Because I was afraid, for I thought that you would take your daughters from me by force.
    32: Any one with whom you find your gods shall not live. In the presence of our kinsmen point out what I have that is yours, and take it." Now Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them.
    33: So Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the tent of the two maidservants, but he did not find them. And he went out of Leah's tent, and entered Rachel's.
    34: Now Rachel had taken the household gods and put them in the camel's saddle, and sat upon them. Laban felt all about the tent, but did not find them.
    35: And she said to her father, "Let not my lord be angry that I cannot rise before you, for the way of women is upon me." So he searched, but did not find the household gods.
    36: Then Jacob became angry, and upbraided Laban; Jacob said to Laban, "What is my offense? What is my sin, that you have hotly pursued me?
    37: Although you have felt through all my goods, what have you found of all your household goods? Set it here before my kinsmen and your kinsmen, that they may decide between us two.
    38: These twenty years I have been with you; your ewes and your she-goats have not miscarried, and I have not eaten the rams of your flocks.
    39: That which was torn by wild beasts I did not bring to you; I bore the loss of it myself; of my hand you required it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night.
    40: Thus I was; by day the heat consumed me, and the cold by night, and my sleep fled from my eyes.
    41: These twenty years I have been in your house; I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times.
    42: If the God of my father, the God of Abraham and the Fear of Isaac, had not been on my side, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God saw my affliction and the labor of my hands, and rebuked you last night."
    43: Then Laban answered and said to Jacob, "The daughters are my daughters, the children are my children, the flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day to these my daughters, or to their children whom they have borne?
    44: Come now, let us make a covenant, you and I; and let it be a witness between you and me."
    45: So Jacob took a stone, and set it up as a pillar.
    46: And Jacob said to his kinsmen, "Gather stones," and they took stones, and made a heap; and they ate there by the heap.
    47: Laban called it Je'gar-sahadu'tha: but Jacob called it Galeed.
    48: Laban said, "This heap is a witness between you and me today." Therefore he named it Galeed,
    49: and the pillar Mizpah, for he said, "The LORD watch between you and me, when we are absent one from the other.
    50: If you ill-treat my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters, although no man is with us, remember, God is witness between you and me."
    51: Then Laban said to Jacob, "See this heap and the pillar, which I have set between you and me.
    52: This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness, that I will not pass over this heap to you, and you will not pass over this heap and this pillar to me, for harm.
    53: The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us." So Jacob swore by the Fear of his father Isaac,
    54: and Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called his kinsmen to eat bread; and they ate bread and tarried all night on the mountain.
    55: Early in the morning Laban arose, and kissed his grandchildren and his daughters and blessed them; then he departed and returned home.

  Chapter 32.

    1: Jacob went on his way and the angels of God met him;
    2: and when Jacob saw them he said, "This is God's army!" So he called the name of that place Mahana'im.
    3: And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Se'ir, the country of Edom,
    4: instructing them, "Thus you shall say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, `I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed until now;
    5: and I have oxen, asses, flocks, menservants, and maidservants; and I have sent to tell my lord, in order that I may find favor in your sight.'"
    6: And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, "We came to your brother Esau, and he is coming to meet you, and four hundred men with him."
    7: Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two companies,
    8: thinking, "If Esau comes to the one company and destroys it, then the company which is left will escape."
    9: And Jacob said, "O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O LORD who didst say to me, `Return to your country and to your kindred, and I will do you good,'
    10: I am not worthy of the least of all the steadfast love and all the faithfulness which thou hast shown to thy servant, for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan; and now I have become two companies.
    11: Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, lest he come and slay us all, the mothers with the children.
    12: But thou didst say, `I will do you good, and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.'"
    13: So he lodged there that night, and took from what he had with him a present for his brother Esau,
    14: two hundred she-goats and twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
    15: thirty milch camels and their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty she-asses and ten he-asses.
    16: These he delivered into the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, "Pass on before me, and put a space between drove and drove."
    17: He instructed the foremost, "When Esau my brother meets you, and asks you, `To whom do you belong? Where are you going? And whose are these before you?'
    18: then you shall say, `They belong to your servant Jacob; they are a present sent to my lord Esau; and moreover he is behind us.'"
    19: He likewise instructed the second and the third and all who followed the droves, "You shall say the same thing to Esau when you meet him,
    20: and you shall say, `Moreover your servant Jacob is behind us.'" For he thought, "I may appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterwards I shall see his face; perhaps he will accept me."
    21: So the present passed on before him; and he himself lodged that night in the camp.
    22: The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two maids, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok.
    23: He took them and sent them across the stream, and likewise everything that he had.
    24: And Jacob was left alone; and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.
    25: When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and Jacob's thigh was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.
    26: Then he said, "Let me go, for the day is breaking." But Jacob said, "I will not let you go, unless you bless me."
    27: And he said to him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Jacob."
    28: Then he said, "Your name shall no more be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed."
    29: Then Jacob asked him, "Tell me, I pray, your name." But he said, "Why is it that you ask my name?" And there he blessed him.
    30: So Jacob called the name of the place Peni'el, saying, "For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life is preserved."
    31: The sun rose upon him as he passed Penu'el, limping because of his thigh.
    32: Therefore to this day the Israelites do not eat the sinew of the hip which is upon the hollow of the thigh, because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh on the sinew of the hip.

End of day 8.