Day 305:

Reading John, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, "Father, the hour has come; glorify thy Son that the Son may glorify thee,
    2: since thou hast given him power over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom thou hast given him.
    3: And this is eternal life, that they know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.
    4: I glorified thee on earth, having accomplished the work which thou gavest me to do;
    5: and now, Father, glorify thou me in thy own presence with the glory which I had with thee before the world was made.
    6: "I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me out of the world; thine they were, and thou gavest them to me, and they have kept thy word.
    7: Now they know that everything that thou hast given me is from thee;
    8: for I have given them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them and know in truth that I came from thee; and they have believed that thou didst send me.
    9: I am praying for them; I am not praying for the world but for those whom thou hast given me, for they are thine;
    10: all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them.
    11: And now I am no more in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name, which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.
    12: While I was with them, I kept them in thy name, which thou hast given me; I have guarded them, and none of them is lost but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled.
    13: But now I am coming to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
    14: I have given them thy word; and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
    15: I do not pray that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil one.
    16: They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
    17: Sanctify them in the truth; thy word is truth.
    18: As thou didst send me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
    19: And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be consecrated in truth.
    20: "I do not pray for these only, but also for those who believe in me through their word,
    21: that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
    22: The glory which thou hast given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one,
    23: I in them and thou in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that thou hast sent me and hast loved them even as thou hast loved me.
    24: Father, I desire that they also, whom thou hast given me, may be with me where I am, to behold my glory which thou hast given me in thy love for me before the foundation of the world.
    25: O righteous Father, the world has not known thee, but I have known thee; and these know that thou hast sent me.
    26: I made known to them thy name, and I will make it known, that the love with which thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them."

  Chapter 18.

    1: When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples across the Kidron valley, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.
    2: Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place; for Jesus often met there with his disciples.
    3: So Judas, procuring a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
    4: Then Jesus, knowing all that was to befall him, came forward and said to them, "Whom do you seek?"
    5: They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am he." Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
    6: When he said to them, "I am he," they drew back and fell to the ground.
    7: Again he asked them, "Whom do you seek?" And they said, "Jesus of Nazareth."
    8: Jesus answered, "I told you that I am he; so, if you seek me, let these men go."
    9: This was to fulfil the word which he had spoken, "Of those whom thou gavest me I lost not one."
    10: Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's slave and cut off his right ear. The slave's name was Malchus.
    11: Jesus said to Peter, "Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup which the Father has given me?"
    12: So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews seized Jesus and bound him.
    13: First they led him to Annas; for he was the father-in-law of Ca'iaphas, who was high priest that year.
    14: It was Ca'iaphas who had given counsel to the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
    15: Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. As this disciple was known to the high priest, he entered the court of the high priest along with Jesus,
    16: while Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the maid who kept the door, and brought Peter in.
    17: The maid who kept the door said to Peter, "Are not you also one of this man's disciples?" He said, "I am not."
    18: Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves; Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
    19: The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching.
    20: Jesus answered him, "I have spoken openly to the world; I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where all Jews come together; I have said nothing secretly.
    21: Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me, what I said to them; they know what I said."
    22: When he had said this, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, "Is that how you answer the high priest?"
    23: Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken wrongly, bear witness to the wrong; but if I have spoken rightly, why do you strike me?"
    24: Annas then sent him bound to Ca'iaphas the high priest.
    25: Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said to him, "Are not you also one of his disciples?" He denied it and said, "I am not."
    26: One of the servants of the high priest, a kinsman of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, "Did I not see you in the garden with him?"
    27: Peter again denied it; and at once the cock crowed.
    28: Then they led Jesus from the house of Ca'iaphas to the praetorium. It was early. They themselves did not enter the praetorium, so that they might not be defiled, but might eat the passover.
    29: So Pilate went out to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?"
    30: They answered him, "If this man were not an evildoer, we would not have handed him over."
    31: Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law." The Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to put any man to death."
    32: This was to fulfil the word which Jesus had spoken to show by what death he was to die.
    33: Pilate entered the praetorium again and called Jesus, and said to him, "Are you the King of the Jews?"
    34: Jesus answered, "Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?"
    35: Pilate answered, "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have handed you over to me; what have you done?"
    36: Jesus answered, "My kingship is not of this world; if my kingship were of this world, my servants would fight, that I might not be handed over to the Jews; but my kingship is not from the world."
    37: Pilate said to him, "So you are a king?" Jesus answered, "You say that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Every one who is of the truth hears my voice."
    38: Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" After he had said this, he went out to the Jews again, and told them, "I find no crime in him.
    39: But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover; will you have me release for you the King of the Jews?"
    40: They cried out again, "Not this man, but Barab'bas!" Now Barab'bas was a robber.

  Chapter 19.

    1: Then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him.
    2: And the soldiers plaited a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple robe;
    3: they came up to him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and struck him with their hands.
    4: Pilate went out again, and said to them, "See, I am bringing him out to you, that you may know that I find no crime in him."
    5: So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, "Behold the man!"
    6: When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, "Crucify him, crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no crime in him."
    7: The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and by that law he ought to die, because he has made himself the Son of God."
    8: When Pilate heard these words, he was the more afraid;
    9: he entered the praetorium again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave no answer.
    10: Pilate therefore said to him, "You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have power to release you, and power to crucify you?"
    11: Jesus answered him, "You would have no power over me unless it had been given you from above; therefore he who delivered me to you has the greater sin."
    12: Upon this Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, "If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend; every one who makes himself a king sets himself against Caesar."
    13: When Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Pavement, and in Hebrew, Gab'batha.
    14: Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, "Behold your King!"
    15: They cried out, "Away with him, away with him, crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar."
    16: Then he handed him over to them to be crucified.
    17: So they took Jesus, and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew Gol'gotha.
    18: There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them.
    19: Pilate also wrote a title and put it on the cross; it read, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews."
    20: Many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek.
    21: The chief priests of the Jews then said to Pilate, "Do not write, `The King of the Jews,' but, `This man said, I am King of the Jews.'"
    22: Pilate answered, "What I have written I have written."
    23: When the soldiers had crucified Jesus they took his garments and made four parts, one for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was without seam, woven from top to bottom;
    24: so they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be." This was to fulfil the scripture, "They parted my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots."
    25: So the soldiers did this. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Mag'dalene.
    26: When Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing near, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your son!"
    27: Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home.
    28: After this Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to fulfil the scripture), "I thirst."
    29: A bowl full of vinegar stood there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop and held it to his mouth.
    30: When Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished"; and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.
    31: Since it was the day of Preparation, in order to prevent the bodies from remaining on the cross on the sabbath (for that sabbath was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
    32: So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucified with him;
    33: but when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.
    34: But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.
    35: He who saw it has borne witness -- his testimony is true, and he knows that he tells the truth -- that you also may believe.
    36: For these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled, "Not a bone of him shall be broken."
    37: And again another scripture says, "They shall look on him whom they have pierced."
    38: After this Joseph of Arimathe'a, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him leave. So he came and took away his body.
    39: Nicode'mus also, who had at first come to him by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds' weight.
    40: They took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews.
    41: Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb where no one had ever been laid.
    42: So because of the Jewish day of Preparation, as the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there.

  Chapter 20.

    1: Now on the first day of the week Mary Mag'dalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
    2: So she ran, and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him."
    3: Peter then came out with the other disciple, and they went toward the tomb.
    4: They both ran, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first;
    5: and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.
    6: Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb; he saw the linen cloths lying,
    7: and the napkin, which had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths but rolled up in a place by itself.
    8: Then the other disciple, who reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed;
    9: for as yet they did not know the scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
    10: Then the disciples went back to their homes.
    11: But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb;
    12: and she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet.
    13: They said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him."
    14: Saying this, she turned round and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
    15: Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Whom do you seek?" Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, "Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away."
    16: Jesus said to her, "Mary." She turned and said to him in Hebrew, "Rab-bo'ni!" (which means Teacher).
    17: Jesus said to her, "Do not hold me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God."
    18: Mary Mag'dalene went and said to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord"; and she told them that he had said these things to her.
    19: On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with you."
    20: When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
    21: Jesus said to them again, "Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send you."
    22: And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit.
    23: If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven; if you retain the sins of any, they are retained."
    24: Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
    25: So the other disciples told him, "We have seen the Lord." But he said to them, "Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and place my finger in the mark of the nails, and place my hand in his side, I will not believe."
    26: Eight days later, his disciples were again in the house, and Thomas was with them. The doors were shut, but Jesus came and stood among them, and said, "Peace be with you."
    27: Then he said to Thomas, "Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side; do not be faithless, but believing."
    28: Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my God!"
    29: Jesus said to him, "Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe."
    30: Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;
    31: but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name.

End of day 305.