Day 164:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['81', '82', '83', '84']:

  Chapter 81.

    1: Sing aloud to God our strength; shout for joy to the God of Jacob!
    2: Raise a song, sound the timbrel, the sweet lyre with the harp.
    3: Blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
    4: For it is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob.
    5: He made it a decree in Joseph, when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a voice I had not known:
    6: "I relieved your shoulder of the burden; your hands were freed from the basket.
    7: In distress you called, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Mer'ibah. [Selah]
    8: Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me!
    9: There shall be no strange god among you; you shall not bow down to a foreign god.
    10: I am the LORD your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
    11: "But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel would have none of me.
    12: So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts, to follow their own counsels.
    13: O that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways!
    14: I would soon subdue their enemies, and turn my hand against their foes.
    15: Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him, and their fate would last for ever.
    16: I would feed you with the finest of the wheat, and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you."

  Chapter 82.

    1: God has taken his place in the divine council; in the midst of the gods he holds judgment:
    2: "How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? [Selah]
    3: Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.
    4: Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked."
    5: They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness; all the foundations of the earth are shaken.
    6: I say, "You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
    7: nevertheless, you shall die like men, and fall like any prince."
    8: Arise, O God, judge the earth; for to thee belong all the nations!

  Chapter 83.

    1: O God, do not keep silence; do not hold thy peace or be still, O God!
    2: For lo, thy enemies are in tumult; those who hate thee have raised their heads.
    3: They lay crafty plans against thy people; they consult together against thy protected ones.
    4: They say, "Come, let us wipe them out as a nation; let the name of Israel be remembered no more!"
    5: Yea, they conspire with one accord; against thee they make a covenant --
    6: the tents of Edom and the Ish'maelites, Moab and the Hagrites,
    7: Gebal and Ammon and Am'alek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;
    8: Assyria also has joined them; they are the strong arm of the children of Lot. [Selah]
    9: Do to them as thou didst to Mid'ian, as to Sis'era and Jabin at the river Kishon,
    10: who were destroyed at En-dor, who became dung for the ground.
    11: Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmun'na,
    12: who said, "Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God."
    13: O my God, make them like whirling dust, like chaff before the wind.
    14: As fire consumes the forest, as the flame sets the mountains ablaze,
    15: so do thou pursue them with thy tempest and terrify them with thy hurricane!
    16: Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek thy name, O LORD.
    17: Let them be put to shame and dismayed for ever; let them perish in disgrace.
    18: Let them know that thou alone, whose name is the LORD, art the Most High over all the earth.

  Chapter 84.

    1: How lovely is thy dwelling place, O LORD of hosts!
    2: My soul longs, yea, faints for the courts of the LORD; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God.
    3: Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at thy altars, O LORD of hosts, my King and my God.
    4: Blessed are those who dwell in thy house, ever singing thy praise! [Selah]
    5: Blessed are the men whose strength is in thee, in whose heart are the highways to Zion.
    6: As they go through the valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with pools.
    7: They go from strength to strength; the God of gods will be seen in Zion.
    8: O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! [Selah]
    9: Behold our shield, O God; look upon the face of thine anointed!
    10: For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness.
    11: For the LORD God is a sun and shield; he bestows favor and honor. No good thing does the LORD withhold from those who walk uprightly.
    12: O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man who trusts in thee!

End of day 164.