Day 188:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezeki'ah king of Judah copied.
    2: It is the glory of God to conceal things, but the glory of kings is to search things out.
    3: As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the mind of kings is unsearchable.
    4: Take away the dross from the silver, and the smith has material for a vessel;
    5: take away the wicked from the presence of the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
    6: Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great;
    7: for it is better to be told, "Come up here," than to be put lower in the presence of the prince. What your eyes have seen
    8: do not hastily bring into court; for what will you do in the end, when your neighbor puts you to shame?
    9: Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not disclose another's secret;
    10: lest he who hears you bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end.
    11: A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver.
    12: Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear.
    13: Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him, he refreshes the spirit of his masters.
    14: Like clouds and wind without rain is a man who boasts of a gift he does not give.
    15: With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone.
    16: If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you be sated with it and vomit it.
    17: Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he become weary of you and hate you.
    18: A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a war club, or a sword, or a sharp arrow.
    19: Trust in a faithless man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips.
    20: He who sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, and like vinegar on a wound.
    21: If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink;
    22: for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and the LORD will reward you.
    23: The north wind brings forth rain; and a backbiting tongue, angry looks.
    24: It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a contentious woman.
    25: Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
    26: Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.
    27: It is not good to eat much honey, so be sparing of complimentary words.
    28: A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls.

  Chapter 26.

    1: Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.
    2: Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in its flying, a curse that is causeless does not alight.
    3: A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of fools.
    4: Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself.
    5: Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes.
    6: He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence.
    7: Like a lame man's legs, which hang useless, is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
    8: Like one who binds the stone in the sling is he who gives honor to a fool.
    9: Like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
    10: Like an archer who wounds everybody is he who hires a passing fool or drunkard.
    11: Like a dog that returns to his vomit is a fool that repeats his folly.
    12: Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
    13: The sluggard says, "There is a lion in the road! There is a lion in the streets!"
    14: As a door turns on its hinges, so does a sluggard on his bed.
    15: The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; it wears him out to bring it back to his mouth.
    16: The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer discreetly.
    17: He who meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears.
    18: Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death,
    19: is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, "I am only joking!"
    20: For lack of wood the fire goes out; and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases.
    21: As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife.
    22: The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.
    23: Like the glaze covering an earthen vessel are smooth lips with an evil heart.
    24: He who hates, dissembles with his lips and harbors deceit in his heart;
    25: when he speaks graciously, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart;
    26: though his hatred be covered with guile, his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
    27: He who digs a pit will fall into it, and a stone will come back upon him who starts it rolling.
    28: A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth.
    2: Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.
    3: A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty, but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.
    4: Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming; but who can stand before jealousy?
    5: Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
    6: Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy.
    7: He who is sated loathes honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet.
    8: Like a bird that strays from its nest, is a man who strays from his home.
    9: Oil and perfume make the heart glad, but the soul is torn by trouble.
    10: Your friend, and your father's friend, do not forsake; and do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away.
    11: Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me.
    12: A prudent man sees danger and hides himself; but the simple go on, and suffer for it.
    13: Take a man's garment when he has given surety for a stranger, and hold him in pledge when he gives surety for foreigners.
    14: He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as cursing.
    15: A continual dripping on a rainy day and a contentious woman are alike;
    16: to restrain her is to restrain the wind or to grasp oil in his right hand.
    17: Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another.
    18: He who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and he who guards his master will be honored.
    19: As in water face answers to face, so the mind of man reflects the man.
    20: Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man.
    21: The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and a man is judged by his praise.
    22: Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, yet his folly will not depart from him.
    23: Know well the condition of your flocks, and give attention to your herds;
    24: for riches do not last for ever; and does a crown endure to all generations?
    25: When the grass is gone, and the new growth appears, and the herbage of the mountains is gathered,
    26: the lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field;
    27: there will be enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household and maintenance for your maidens.

  Chapter 28.

    1: The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion.
    2: When a land transgresses it has many rulers; but with men of understanding and knowledge its stability will long continue.
    3: A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food.
    4: Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them.
    5: Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the LORD understand it completely.
    6: Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is perverse in his ways.
    7: He who keeps the law is a wise son, but a companion of gluttons shames his father.
    8: He who augments his wealth by interest and increase gathers it for him who is kind to the poor.
    9: If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.
    10: He who misleads the upright into an evil way will fall into his own pit; but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance.
    11: A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man who has understanding will find him out.
    12: When the righteous triumph, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
    13: He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy.
    14: Blessed is the man who fears the LORD always; but he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity.
    15: Like a roaring lion or a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
    16: A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor; but he who hates unjust gain will prolong his days.
    17: If a man is burdened with the blood of another, let him be a fugitive until death; let no one help him.
    18: He who walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is perverse in his ways will fall into a pit.
    19: He who tills his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty.
    20: A faithful man will abound with blessings, but he who hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.
    21: To show partiality is not good; but for a piece of bread a man will do wrong.
    22: A miserly man hastens after wealth, and does not know that want will come upon him.
    23: He who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue.
    24: He who robs his father or his mother and says, "That is no transgression," is the companion of a man who destroys.
    25: A greedy man stirs up strife, but he who trusts in the LORD will be enriched.
    26: He who trusts in his own mind is a fool; but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered.
    27: He who gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse.
    28: When the wicked rise, men hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.

End of day 188.