Day 167:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['93', '94', '95', '96']:

  Chapter 93.

    1: The LORD reigns; he is robed in majesty; the LORD is robed, he is girded with strength. Yea, the world is established; it shall never be moved;
    2: thy throne is established from of old; thou art from everlasting.
    3: The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice, the floods lift up their roaring.
    4: Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea, the LORD on high is mighty!
    5: Thy decrees are very sure; holiness befits thy house, O LORD, for evermore.

  Chapter 94.

    1: O LORD, thou God of vengeance, thou God of vengeance, shine forth!
    2: Rise up, O judge of the earth; render to the proud their deserts!
    3: O LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult?
    4: They pour out their arrogant words, they boast, all the evildoers.
    5: They crush thy people, O LORD, and afflict thy heritage.
    6: They slay the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless;
    7: and they say, "The LORD does not see; the God of Jacob does not perceive."
    8: Understand, O dullest of the people! Fools, when will you be wise?
    9: He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see?
    10: He who chastens the nations, does he not chastise? He who teaches men knowledge,
    11: the LORD, knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath.
    12: Blessed is the man whom thou dost chasten, O LORD, and whom thou dost teach out of thy law
    13: to give him respite from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked.
    14: For the LORD will not forsake his people; he will not abandon his heritage;
    15: for justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it.
    16: Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers?
    17: If the LORD had not been my help, my soul would soon have dwelt in the land of silence.
    18: When I thought, "My foot slips," thy steadfast love, O LORD, held me up.
    19: When the cares of my heart are many, thy consolations cheer my soul.
    20: Can wicked rulers be allied with thee, who frame mischief by statute?
    21: They band together against the life of the righteous, and condemn the innocent to death.
    22: But the LORD has become my stronghold, and my God the rock of my refuge.
    23: He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness; the LORD our God will wipe them out.

  Chapter 95.

    1: O come, let us sing to the LORD; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation!
    2: Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!
    3: For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
    4: In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his also.
    5: The sea is his, for he made it; for his hands formed the dry land.
    6: O come, let us worship and bow down, let us kneel before the LORD, our Maker!
    7: For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. O that today you would hearken to his voice!
    8: Harden not your hearts, as at Mer'ibah, as on the day at Massah in the wilderness,
    9: when your fathers tested me, and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work.
    10: For forty years I loathed that generation and said, "They are a people who err in heart, and they do not regard my ways."
    11: Therefore I swore in my anger that they should not enter my rest.

  Chapter 96.

    1: O sing to the LORD a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth!
    2: Sing to the LORD, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.
    3: Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
    4: For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods.
    5: For all the gods of the peoples are idols; but the LORD made the heavens.
    6: Honor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
    7: Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
    8: Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering, and come into his courts!
    9: Worship the LORD in holy array; tremble before him, all the earth!
    10: Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns! Yea, the world is established, it shall never be moved; he will judge the peoples with equity."
    11: Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all that fills it;
    12: let the field exult, and everything in it! Then shall all the trees of the wood sing for joy
    13: before the LORD, for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with his truth.

End of day 167.