Day 248:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: "And you, O son of man, take a sharp sword; use it as a barber's razor and pass it over your head and your beard; then take balances for weighing, and divide the hair.
    2: A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are completed; and a third part you shall take and strike with the sword round about the city; and a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will unsheathe the sword after them.
    3: And you shall take from these a small number, and bind them in the skirts of your robe.
    4: And of these again you shall take some, and cast them into the fire, and burn them in the fire; from there a fire will come forth into all the house of Israel.
    5: Thus says the Lord GOD: This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the center of the nations, with countries round about her.
    6: And she has wickedly rebelled against my ordinances more than the nations, and against my statutes more than the countries round about her, by rejecting my ordinances and not walking in my statutes.
    7: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you are more turbulent than the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in my statutes or kept my ordinances, but have acted according to the ordinances of the nations that are round about you;
    8: therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, am against you; and I will execute judgments in the midst of you in the sight of the nations.
    9: And because of all your abominations I will do with you what I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again.
    10: Therefore fathers shall eat their sons in the midst of you, and sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments on you, and any of you who survive I will scatter to all the winds.
    11: Wherefore, as I live, says the Lord GOD, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, therefore I will cut you down; my eye will not spare, and I will have no pity.
    12: A third part of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed with famine in the midst of you; a third part shall fall by the sword round about you; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds and will unsheathe the sword after them.
    13: "Thus shall my anger spend itself, and I will vent my fury upon them and satisfy myself; and they shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken in my jealousy, when I spend my fury upon them.
    14: Moreover I will make you a desolation and an object of reproach among the nations round about you and in the sight of all that pass by.
    15: You shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror, to the nations round about you, when I execute judgments on you in anger and fury, and with furious chastisements -- I, the LORD, have spoken --
    16: when I loose against you my deadly arrows of famine, arrows for destruction, which I will loose to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you, and break your staff of bread.
    17: I will send famine and wild beasts against you, and they will rob you of your children; pestilence and blood shall pass through you; and I will bring the sword upon you. I, the LORD, have spoken."

  Chapter 6.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
    3: and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD! Thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
    4: Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense altars shall be broken; and I will cast down your slain before your idols.
    5: And I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
    6: Wherever you dwell your cities shall be waste and your high places ruined, so that your altars will be waste and ruined, your idols broken and destroyed, your incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out.
    7: And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
    8: "Yet I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escape the sword, and when you are scattered through the countries,
    9: then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive, when I have broken their wanton heart which has departed from me, and blinded their eyes which turn wantonly after their idols; and they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils which they have committed, for all their abominations.
    10: And they shall know that I am the LORD; I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them."
    11: Thus says the Lord GOD: "Clap your hands, and stamp your foot, and say, Alas! because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel; for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.
    12: He that is far off shall die of pestilence; and he that is near shall fall by the sword; and he that is left and is preserved shall die of famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them.
    13: And you shall know that I am the LORD, when their slain lie among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill, on all the mountain tops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, wherever they offered pleasing odor to all their idols.
    14: And I will stretch out my hand against them, and make the land desolate and waste, throughout all their habitations, from the wilderness to Riblah. Then they will know that I am the LORD."

  Chapter 7.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "And you, O son of man, thus says the Lord GOD to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land.
    3: Now the end is upon you, and I will let loose my anger upon you, and will judge you according to your ways; and I will punish you for all your abominations.
    4: And my eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity; but I will punish you for your ways, while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
    5: "Thus says the Lord GOD: Disaster after disaster! Behold, it comes.
    6: An end has come, the end has come; it has awakened against you. Behold, it comes.
    7: Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land; the time has come, the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting upon the mountains.
    8: Now I will soon pour out my wrath upon you, and spend my anger against you, and judge you according to your ways; and I will punish you for all your abominations.
    9: And my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity; I will punish you according to your ways, while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the LORD, who smite.
    10: "Behold, the day! Behold, it comes! Your doom has come, injustice has blossomed, pride has budded.
    11: Violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness; none of them shall remain, nor their abundance, nor their wealth; neither shall there be preeminence among them.
    12: The time has come, the day draws near. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all their multitude.
    13: For the seller shall not return to what he has sold, while they live. For wrath is upon all their multitude; it shall not turn back; and because of his iniquity, none can maintain his life.
    14: "They have blown the trumpet and made all ready; but none goes to battle, for my wrath is upon all their multitude.
    15: The sword is without, pestilence and famine are within; he that is in the field dies by the sword; and him that is in the city famine and pestilence devour.
    16: And if any survivors escape, they will be on the mountains, like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one over his iniquity.
    17: All hands are feeble, and all knees weak as water.
    18: They gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror covers them; shame is upon all faces, and baldness on all their heads.
    19: They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing; their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD; they cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.
    20: Their beautiful ornament they used for vainglory, and they made their abominable images and their detestable things of it; therefore I will make it an unclean thing to them.
    21: And I will give it into the hands of foreigners for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane it.
    22: I will turn my face from them, that they may profane my precious place; robbers shall enter and profane it,
    23: and make a desolation. "Because the land is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence,
    24: I will bring the worst of the nations to take possession of their houses; I will put an end to their proud might, and their holy places shall be profaned.
    25: When anguish comes, they will seek peace, but there shall be none.
    26: Disaster comes upon disaster, rumor follows rumor; they seek a vision from the prophet, but the law perishes from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
    27: The king mourns, the prince is wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are palsied by terror. According to their way I will do to them, and according to their own judgments I will judge them; and they shall know that I am the LORD."

  Chapter 8.

    1: In the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house, with the elders of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.
    2: Then I beheld, and, lo, a form that had the appearance of a man; below what appeared to be his loins it was fire, and above his loins it was like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming bronze.
    3: He put forth the form of a hand, and took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven, and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.
    4: And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the vision that I saw in the plain.
    5: Then he said to me, "Son of man, lift up your eyes now in the direction of the north." So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy.
    6: And he said to me, "Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations."
    7: And he brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall.
    8: Then said he to me, "Son of man, dig in the wall"; and when I dug in the wall, lo, there was a door.
    9: And he said to me, "Go in, and see the vile abominations that they are committing here."
    10: So I went in and saw; and there, portrayed upon the wall round about, were all kinds of creeping things, and loathsome beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel.
    11: And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Ja-azani'ah the son of Shaphan standing among them. Each had his censer in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up.
    12: Then he said to me, "Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, every man in his room of pictures? For they say, `The LORD does not see us, the LORD has forsaken the land.'"
    13: He said also to me, "You will see still greater abominations which they commit."
    14: Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the LORD; and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.
    15: Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these."
    16: And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the LORD; and behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men, with their backs to the temple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east, worshiping the sun toward the east.
    17: Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too slight a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations which they commit here, that they should fill the land with violence, and provoke me further to anger? Lo, they put the branch to their nose.
    18: Therefore I will deal in wrath; my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity; and though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them."

End of day 248.