Day 201:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Do not set your heart on your wealth, nor say, "I have enough."
    2: Do not follow your inclination and strength, walking according to the desires of your heart.
    3: Do not say, "Who will have power over me?" for the Lord will surely punish you.
    4: Do not say, "I sinned, and what happened to me?" for the Lord is slow to anger.
    5: Do not be so confident of atonement that you add sin to sin.
    6: Do not say, "His mercy is great, he will forgive the multitude of my sins," for both mercy and wrath are with him, and his anger rests on sinners.
    7: Do not delay to turn to the Lord, nor postpone it from day to day; for suddenly the wrath of the Lord will go forth, and at the time of punishment you will perish.
    8: Do not depend on dishonest wealth, for it will not benefit you in the day of calamity.
    9: Do not winnow with every wind, nor follow every path: the double-tongued sinner does that.
    10: Be steadfast in your understanding, and let your speech be consistent.
    11: Be quick to hear, and be deliberate in answering.
    12: If you have understanding, answer your neighbor; but if not, put your hand on your mouth.
    13: Glory and dishonor come from speaking, and a man's tongue is his downfall.
    14: Do not be called a slanderer, and do not lie in ambush with your tongue; for shame comes to the thief, and severe condemnation to the double-tongued.
    15: In great and small matters do not act amiss,

  Chapter 6.

    1: and do not become an enemy instead of a friend; for a bad name incurs shame and reproach: so fares the double-tongued sinner.
    2: Do not exalt yourself through your soul's counsel, lest your soul be torn in pieces like a bull.
    3: You will devour your leaves and destroy your fruit, and will be left like a withered tree.
    4: An evil soul will destroy him who has it, and make him the laughingstock of his enemies.
    5: A pleasant voice multiplies friends, and a gracious tongue multiplies courtesies.
    6: Let those that are at peace with you be many, but let your advisers be one in a thousand.
    7: When you gain a friend, gain him through testing, and do not trust him hastily.
    8: For there is a friend who is such at his own convenience, but will not stand by you in your day of trouble.
    9: And there is a friend who changes into an enemy, and will disclose a quarrel to your disgrace.
    10: And there is a friend who is a table companion, but will not stand by you in your day of trouble.
    11: In prosperity he will make himself your equal, and be bold with your servants;
    12: but if you are brought low he will turn against you, and will hide himself from your presence.
    13: Keep yourself far from your enemies, and be on guard toward your friends.
    14: A faithful friend is a sturdy shelter: he that has found one has found a treasure.
    15: There is nothing so precious as a faithful friend, and no scales can measure his excellence.
    16: A faithful friend is an elixir of life; and those who fear the Lord will find him.
    17: Whoever fears the Lord directs his friendship aright, for as he is, so is his neighbor also.
    18: My son, from your youth up choose instruction, and until you are old you will keep finding wisdom.
    19: Come to her like one who plows and sows, and wait for her good harvest. For in her service you will toil a little while, and soon you will eat of her produce.
    20: She seems very harsh to the uninstructed; a weakling will not remain with her.
    21: She will weigh him down like a heavy testing stone, and he will not be slow to cast her off.
    22: For wisdom is like her name, and is not manifest to many.
    23: Listen, my son, and accept my judgment; do not reject my counsel.
    24: Put your feet into her fetters, and your neck into her collar.
    25: Put your shoulder under her and carry her, and do not fret under her bonds.
    26: Come to her with all your soul, and keep her ways with all your might.
    27: Search out and seek, and she will become known to you; and when you get hold of her, do not let her go.
    28: For at last you will find the rest she gives, and she will be changed into joy for you.
    29: Then her fetters will become for you a strong protection, and her collar a glorious robe.
    30: Her yoke is a golden ornament, and her bonds are a cord of blue.
    31: You will wear her like a glorious robe, and put her on like a crown of gladness.
    32: If you are willing, my son, you will be taught, and if you apply yourself you will become clever.
    33: If you love to listen you will gain knowledge, and if you incline your ear you will become wise.
    34: Stand in the assembly of the elders. Who is wise? Cleave to him.
    35: Be ready to listen to every narrative, and do not let wise proverbs escape you.
    36: If you see an intelligent man, visit him early; let your foot wear out his doorstep.
    37: Reflect on the statutes of the Lord, and meditate at all times on his commandments. It is he who will give insight to your mind, and your desire for wisdom will be granted.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Do no evil, and evil will never befall you.
    2: Stay away from wrong, and it will turn away from you.
    3: My son, do not sow the furrows of injustice, and you will not reap a sevenfold crop.
    4: Do not seek from the Lord the highest office, nor the seat of honor from the king.
    5: Do not assert your righteousness before the Lord, nor display your wisdom before the king.
    6: Do not seek to become a judge, lest you be unable to remove iniquity, lest you be partial to a powerful man, and thus put a blot on your integrity.
    7: Do not offend against the public, and do not disgrace yourself among the people.
    8: Do not commit a sin twice; even for one you will not go unpunished.
    9: Do not say, "He will consider the multitude of my gifts, and when I make an offering to the Most High God he will accept it."
    10: Do not be fainthearted in your prayer, nor neglect to give alms.
    11: Do not ridicule a man who is bitter in soul, for there is One who abases and exalts.
    12: Do not devise a lie against your brother, nor do the like to a friend.
    13: Refuse to utter any lie, for the habit of lying serves no good.
    14: Do not prattle in the assembly of the elders, nor repeat yourself in your prayer.
    15: Do not hate toilsome labor, or farm work, which were created by the Most High.
    16: Do not count yourself among the crowd of sinners; remember that wrath does not delay.
    17: Humble yourself greatly, for the punishment of the ungodly is fire and worms.
    18: Do not exchange a friend for money, or a real brother for the gold of Ophir.
    19: Do not deprive yourself of a wise and good wife, for her charm is worth more than gold.
    20: Do not abuse a servant who performs his work faithfully, or a hired laborer who devotes himself to you.
    21: Let your soul love an intelligent servant; do not withhold from him his freedom.
    22: Do you have cattle? Look after them; if they are profitable to you, keep them.
    23: Do you have children? Discipline them, and make them obedient from their youth.
    24: Do you have daughters? Be concerned for their chastity, and do not show yourself too indulgent with them.
    25: Give a daughter in marriage; you will have finished a great task. But give her to a man of understanding.
    26: If you have a wife who pleases you, do not cast her out; but do not trust yourself to one whom you detest.
    27: With all your heart honor your father, and do not forget the birth pangs of your mother.
    28: Remember that through your parents you were born; and what can you give back to them that equals their gift to you?
    29: With all your soul fear the Lord, and honor his priests.
    30: With all your might love your Maker, and do not forsake his ministers.
    31: Fear the Lord and honor the priest, and give him his portion, as is commanded you: the first fruits, the guilt offering, the gift of the shoulders, the sacrifice of sanctification, and the first fruits of the holy things.
    32: Stretch forth your hand to the poor, so that your blessing may be complete.
    33: Give graciously to all the living, and withhold not kindness from the dead.
    34: Do not fail those who weep, but mourn with those who mourn.
    35: Do not shrink from visiting a sick man, because for such deeds you will be loved.
    36: In all you do, remember the end of your life, and then you will never sin.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Do not contend with a powerful man, lest you fall into his hands.
    2: Do not quarrel with a rich man, lest his resources outweigh yours; for gold has ruined many, and has perverted the minds of kings.
    3: Do not argue with a chatterer, nor heap wood on his fire.
    4: Do not jest with an ill-bred person, lest your ancestors be disgraced.
    5: Do not reproach a man who is turning away from sin; remember that we all deserve punishment.
    6: Do not disdain a man when he is old, for some of us are growing old.
    7: Do not rejoice over any one's death; remember that we all must die.
    8: Do not slight the discourse of the sages, but busy yourself with their maxims; because from them you will gain instruction and learn how to serve great men.
    9: Do not disregard the discourse of the aged, for they themselves learned from their fathers; because from them you will gain understanding and learn how to give an answer in time of need.
    10: Do not kindle the coals of a sinner, lest you be burned in his flaming fire.
    11: Do not get up and leave an insolent fellow, lest he lie in ambush against your words.
    12: Do not lend to a man who is stronger than you; but if you do lend anything, be as one who has lost it.
    13: Do not give surety beyond your means, but if you give surety, be concerned as one who must pay.
    14: Do not go to law against a judge, for the decision will favor him because of his standing.
    15: Do not travel on the road with a foolhardy fellow, lest he be burdensome to you; for he will act as he pleases, and through his folly you will perish with him.
    16: Do not fight with a wrathful man, and do not cross the wilderness with him; because blood is as nothing in his sight, and where no help is at hand, he will strike you down.
    17: Do not consult with a fool, for he will not be able to keep a secret.
    18: In the presence of a stranger do nothing that is to be kept secret, for you do not know what he will divulge.
    19: Do not reveal your thoughts to every one, lest you drive away your good luck.

End of day 201.