Day 293:

Reading Mark, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death before they see that the kingdom of God has come with power."
    2: And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain apart by themselves; and he was transfigured before them,
    3: and his garments became glistening, intensely white, as no fuller on earth could bleach them.
    4: And there appeared to them Eli'jah with Moses; and they were talking to Jesus.
    5: And Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is well that we are here; let us make three booths, one for you and one for Moses and one for Eli'jah."
    6: For he did not know what to say, for they were exceedingly afraid.
    7: And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, "This is my beloved Son; listen to him."
    8: And suddenly looking around they no longer saw any one with them but Jesus only.
    9: And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of man should have risen from the dead.
    10: So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what the rising from the dead meant.
    11: And they asked him, "Why do the scribes say that first Eli'jah must come?"
    12: And he said to them, "Eli'jah does come first to restore all things; and how is it written of the Son of man, that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt?
    13: But I tell you that Eli'jah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him."
    14: And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd about them, and scribes arguing with them.
    15: And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed, and ran up to him and greeted him.
    16: And he asked them, "What are you discussing with them?"
    17: And one of the crowd answered him, "Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a dumb spirit;
    18: and wherever it seizes him, it dashes him down; and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid; and I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able."
    19: And he answered them, "O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me."
    20: And they brought the boy to him; and when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
    21: And Jesus asked his father, "How long has he had this?" And he said, "From childhood.
    22: And it has often cast him into the fire and into the water, to destroy him; but if you can do anything, have pity on us and help us."
    23: And Jesus said to him, "If you can! All things are possible to him who believes."
    24: Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, "I believe; help my unbelief!"
    25: And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, "You dumb and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him, and never enter him again."
    26: And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse; so that most of them said, "He is dead."
    27: But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
    28: And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, "Why could we not cast it out?"
    29: And he said to them, "This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer."
    30: They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he would not have any one know it;
    31: for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, "The Son of man will be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him; and when he is killed, after three days he will rise."
    32: But they did not understand the saying, and they were afraid to ask him.
    33: And they came to Caper'na-um; and when he was in the house he asked them, "What were you discussing on the way?"
    34: But they were silent; for on the way they had discussed with one another who was the greatest.
    35: And he sat down and called the twelve; and he said to them, "If any one would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all."
    36: And he took a child, and put him in the midst of them; and taking him in his arms, he said to them,
    37: "Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me; and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me."
    38: John said to him, "Teacher, we saw a man casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he was not following us."
    39: But Jesus said, "Do not forbid him; for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon after to speak evil of me.
    40: For he that is not against us is for us.
    41: For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you bear the name of Christ, will by no means lose his reward.
    42: "Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung round his neck and he were thrown into the sea.
    43: And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire.
    44: And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell.
    45: And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out; it is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,
    46: where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.
    47: For every one will be salted with fire.
    48: Salt is good; but if the salt has lost its saltness, how will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another."

  Chapter 10.

    1: And he left there and went to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan, and crowds gathered to him again; and again, as his custom was, he taught them.
    2: And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?"
    3: He answered them, "What did Moses command you?"
    4: They said, "Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce, and to put her away."
    5: But Jesus said to them, "For your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
    6: But from the beginning of creation, `God made them male and female.'
    7: `For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife,
    8: and the two shall become one flesh.' So they are no longer two but one flesh.
    9: What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder."
    10: And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter.
    11: And he said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another, commits adultery against her;
    12: and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery."
    13: And they were bringing children to him, that he might touch them; and the disciples rebuked them.
    14: But when Jesus saw it he was indignant, and said to them, "Let the children come to me, do not hinder them; for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
    15: Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it."
    16: And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands upon them.
    17: And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him, and asked him, "Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
    18: And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good but God alone.
    19: You know the commandments: `Do not kill, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.'"
    20: And he said to him, "Teacher, all these I have observed from my youth."
    21: And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said to him, "You lack one thing; go, sell what you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me."
    22: At that saying his countenance fell, and he went away sorrowful; for he had great possessions.
    23: And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, "How hard it will be for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God!"
    24: And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, "Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God!
    25: It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God."
    26: And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, "Then who can be saved?"
    27: Jesus looked at them and said, "With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God."
    28: Peter began to say to him, "Lo, we have left everything and followed you."
    29: Jesus said, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel,
    30: who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life.
    31: But many that are first will be last, and the last first."
    32: And they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them; and they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was to happen to him,
    33: saying, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles;
    34: and they will mock him, and spit upon him, and scourge him, and kill him; and after three days he will rise."
    35: And James and John, the sons of Zeb'edee, came forward to him, and said to him, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you."
    36: And he said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"
    37: And they said to him, "Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your glory."
    38: But Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?"
    39: And they said to him, "We are able." And Jesus said to them, "The cup that I drink you will drink; and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized;
    40: but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared."
    41: And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John.
    42: And Jesus called them to him and said to them, "You know that those who are supposed to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them.
    43: But it shall not be so among you; but whoever would be great among you must be your servant,
    44: and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all.
    45: For the Son of man also came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
    46: And they came to Jericho; and as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great multitude, Bartimae'us, a blind beggar, the son of Timae'us, was sitting by the roadside.
    47: And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
    48: And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent; but he cried out all the more, "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
    49: And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him." And they called the blind man, saying to him, "Take heart; rise, he is calling you."
    50: And throwing off his mantle he sprang up and came to Jesus.
    51: And Jesus said to him, "What do you want me to do for you?" And the blind man said to him, "Master, let me receive my sight."
    52: And Jesus said to him, "Go your way; your faith has made you well." And immediately he received his sight and followed him on the way.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Beth'phage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
    2: and said to them, "Go into the village opposite you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat; untie it and bring it.
    3: If any one says to you, `Why are you doing this?' say, `The Lord has need of it and will send it back here immediately.'"
    4: And they went away, and found a colt tied at the door out in the open street; and they untied it.
    5: And those who stood there said to them, "What are you doing, untying the colt?"
    6: And they told them what Jesus had said; and they let them go.
    7: And they brought the colt to Jesus, and threw their garments on it; and he sat upon it.
    8: And many spread their garments on the road, and others spread leafy branches which they had cut from the fields.
    9: And those who went before and those who followed cried out, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
    10: Blessed is the kingdom of our father David that is coming! Hosanna in the highest!"
    11: And he entered Jerusalem, and went into the temple; and when he had looked round at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
    12: On the following day, when they came from Bethany, he was hungry.
    13: And seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to see if he could find anything on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs.
    14: And he said to it, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again." And his disciples heard it.
    15: And they came to Jerusalem. And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons;
    16: and he would not allow any one to carry anything through the temple.
    17: And he taught, and said to them, "Is it not written, `My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations'? But you have made it a den of robbers."
    18: And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and sought a way to destroy him; for they feared him, because all the multitude was astonished at his teaching.
    19: And when evening came they went out of the city.
    20: As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots.
    21: And Peter remembered and said to him, "Master, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered."
    22: And Jesus answered them, "Have faith in God.
    23: Truly, I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, `Be taken up and cast into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.
    24: Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.
    25: And whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against any one; so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses."
    26: And they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him,
    27: and they said to him, "By what authority are you doing these things, or who gave you this authority to do them?"
    28: Jesus said to them, "I will ask you a question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
    29: Was the baptism of John from heaven or from men? Answer me."
    30: And they argued with one another, "If we say, `From heaven,' he will say, `Why then did you not believe him?'
    31: But shall we say, `From men'?" -- they were afraid of the people, for all held that John was a real prophet.
    32: So they answered Jesus, "We do not know." And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."

  Chapter 12.

    1: And he began to speak to them in parables. "A man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge around it, and dug a pit for the wine press, and built a tower, and let it out to tenants, and went into another country.
    2: When the time came, he sent a servant to the tenants, to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard.
    3: And they took him and beat him, and sent him away empty-handed.
    4: Again he sent to them another servant, and they wounded him in the head, and treated him shamefully.
    5: And he sent another, and him they killed; and so with many others, some they beat and some they killed.
    6: He had still one other, a beloved son; finally he sent him to them, saying, `They will respect my son.'
    7: But those tenants said to one another, `This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.'
    8: And they took him and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
    9: What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants, and give the vineyard to others.
    10: Have you not read this scripture: `The very stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner;
    11: this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes'?"
    12: And they tried to arrest him, but feared the multitude, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them; so they left him and went away.
    13: And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Hero'di-ans, to entrap him in his talk.
    14: And they came and said to him, "Teacher, we know that you are true, and care for no man; for you do not regard the position of men, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?
    15: Should we pay them, or should we not?" But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, "Why put me to the test? Bring me a coin, and let me look at it."
    16: And they brought one. And he said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?" They said to him, "Caesar's."
    17: Jesus said to them, "Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." And they were amazed at him.
    18: And Sad'ducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection; and they asked him a question, saying,
    19: "Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, the man must take the wife, and raise up children for his brother.
    20: There were seven brothers; the first took a wife, and when he died left no children;
    21: and the second took her, and died, leaving no children; and the third likewise;
    22: and the seven left no children. Last of all the woman also died.
    23: In the resurrection whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife."
    24: Jesus said to them, "Is not this why you are wrong, that you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God?
    25: For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
    26: And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God said to him, `I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob'?
    27: He is not God of the dead, but of the living; you are quite wrong."
    28: And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, "Which commandment is the first of all?"
    29: Jesus answered, "The first is, `Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one;
    30: and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.'
    31: The second is this, `You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' There is no other commandment greater than these."
    32: And the scribe said to him, "You are right, Teacher; you have truly said that he is one, and there is no other but he;
    33: and to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices."
    34: And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, "You are not far from the kingdom of God." And after that no one dared to ask him any question.
    35: And as Jesus taught in the temple, he said, "How can the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
    36: David himself, inspired by the Holy Spirit, declared, `The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I put thy enemies under thy feet.'
    37: David himself calls him Lord; so how is he his son?" And the great throng heard him gladly.
    38: And in his teaching he said, "Beware of the scribes, who like to go about in long robes, and to have salutations in the market places
    39: and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
    40: who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation."
    41: And he sat down opposite the treasury, and watched the multitude putting money into the treasury. Many rich people put in large sums.
    42: And a poor widow came, and put in two copper coins, which make a penny.
    43: And he called his disciples to him, and said to them, "Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the treasury.
    44: For they all contributed out of their abundance; but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, her whole living."

End of day 293.