Day 136:

Reading Job, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: "Lo, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it.
    2: What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you.
    3: But I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue my case with God.
    4: As for you, you whitewash with lies; worthless physicians are you all.
    5: Oh that you would keep silent, and it would be your wisdom!
    6: Hear now my reasoning, and listen to the pleadings of my lips.
    7: Will you speak falsely for God, and speak deceitfully for him?
    8: Will you show partiality toward him, will you plead the case for God?
    9: Will it be well with you when he searches you out? Or can you deceive him, as one deceives a man?
    10: He will surely rebuke you if in secret you show partiality.
    11: Will not his majesty terrify you, and the dread of him fall upon you?
    12: Your maxims are proverbs of ashes, your defenses are defenses of clay.
    13: "Let me have silence, and I will speak, and let come on me what may.
    14: I will take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand.
    15: Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope; yet I will defend my ways to his face.
    16: This will be my salvation, that a godless man shall not come before him.
    17: Listen carefully to my words, and let my declaration be in your ears.
    18: Behold, I have prepared my case; I know that I shall be vindicated.
    19: Who is there that will contend with me? For then I would be silent and die.
    20: Only grant two things to me, then I will not hide myself from thy face:
    21: withdraw thy hand far from me, and let not dread of thee terrify me.
    22: Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and do thou reply to me.
    23: How many are my iniquities and my sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin.
    24: Why dost thou hide thy face, and count me as thy enemy?
    25: Wilt thou frighten a driven leaf and pursue dry chaff?
    26: For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me inherit the iniquities of my youth.
    27: Thou puttest my feet in the stocks, and watchest all my paths; thou settest a bound to the soles of my feet.
    28: Man wastes away like a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten.

  Chapter 14.

    1: "Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.
    2: He comes forth like a flower, and withers; he flees like a shadow, and continues not.
    3: And dost thou open thy eyes upon such a one and bring him into judgment with thee?
    4: Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one.
    5: Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with thee, and thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass,
    6: look away from him, and desist, that he may enjoy, like a hireling, his day.
    7: "For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease.
    8: Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stump die in the ground,
    9: yet at the scent of water it will bud and put forth branches like a young plant.
    10: But man dies, and is laid low; man breathes his last, and where is he?
    11: As waters fail from a lake, and a river wastes away and dries up,
    12: so man lies down and rises not again; till the heavens are no more he will not awake, or be roused out of his sleep.
    13: Oh that thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, that thou wouldest conceal me until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
    14: If a man die, shall he live again? All the days of my service I would wait, till my release should come.
    15: Thou wouldest call, and I would answer thee; thou wouldest long for the work of thy hands.
    16: For then thou wouldest number my steps, thou wouldest not keep watch over my sin;
    17: my transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and thou wouldest cover over my iniquity.
    18: "But the mountain falls and crumbles away, and the rock is removed from its place;
    19: the waters wear away the stones; the torrents wash away the soil of the earth; so thou destroyest the hope of man.
    20: Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passes; thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
    21: His sons come to honor, and he does not know it; they are brought low, and he perceives it not.
    22: He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself."

  Chapter 15.

    1: Then Eli'phaz the Te'manite answered:
    2: "Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill himself with the east wind?
    3: Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good?
    4: But you are doing away with the fear of God, and hindering meditation before God.
    5: For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty.
    6: Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; your own lips testify against you.
    7: "Are you the first man that was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills?
    8: Have you listened in the council of God? And do you limit wisdom to yourself?
    9: What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not clear to us?
    10: Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us, older than your father.
    11: Are the consolations of God too small for you, or the word that deals gently with you?
    12: Why does your heart carry you away, and why do your eyes flash,
    13: that you turn your spirit against God, and let such words go out of your mouth?
    14: What is man, that he can be clean? Or he that is born of a woman, that he can be righteous?
    15: Behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones, and the heavens are not clean in his sight;
    16: how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks iniquity like water!
    17: "I will show you, hear me; and what I have seen I will declare
    18: (what wise men have told, and their fathers have not hidden,
    19: to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them).
    20: The wicked man writhes in pain all his days, through all the years that are laid up for the ruthless.
    21: Terrifying sounds are in his ears; in prosperity the destroyer will come upon him.
    22: He does not believe that he will return out of darkness, and he is destined for the sword.
    23: He wanders abroad for bread, saying, `Where is it?' He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand;
    24: distress and anguish terrify him; they prevail against him, like a king prepared for battle.
    25: Because he has stretched forth his hand against God, and bids defiance to the Almighty,
    26: running stubbornly against him with a thick-bossed shield;
    27: because he has covered his face with his fat, and gathered fat upon his loins,
    28: and has lived in desolate cities, in houses which no man should inhabit, which were destined to become heaps of ruins;
    29: he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure, nor will he strike root in the earth;
    30: he will not escape from darkness; the flame will dry up his shoots, and his blossom will be swept away by the wind.
    31: Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself; for emptiness will be his recompense.
    32: It will be paid in full before his time, and his branch will not be green.
    33: He will shake off his unripe grape, like the vine, and cast off his blossom, like the olive tree.
    34: For the company of the godless is barren, and fire consumes the tents of bribery.
    35: They conceive mischief and bring forth evil and their heart prepares deceit."

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then Job answered:
    2: "I have heard many such things; miserable comforters are you all.
    3: Shall windy words have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer?
    4: I also could speak as you do, if you were in my place; I could join words together against you, and shake my head at you.
    5: I could strengthen you with my mouth, and the solace of my lips would assuage your pain.
    6: "If I speak, my pain is not assuaged, and if I forbear, how much of it leaves me?
    7: Surely now God has worn me out; he has made desolate all my company.
    8: And he has shriveled me up, which is a witness against me; and my leanness has risen up against me, it testifies to my face.
    9: He has torn me in his wrath, and hated me; he has gnashed his teeth at me; my adversary sharpens his eyes against me.
    10: Men have gaped at me with their mouth, they have struck me insolently upon the cheek, they mass themselves together against me.
    11: God gives me up to the ungodly, and casts me into the hands of the wicked.
    12: I was at ease, and he broke me asunder; he seized me by the neck and dashed me to pieces; he set me up as his target,
    13: his archers surround me. He slashes open my kidneys, and does not spare; he pours out my gall on the ground.
    14: He breaks me with breach upon breach; he runs upon me like a warrior.
    15: I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and have laid my strength in the dust.
    16: My face is red with weeping, and on my eyelids is deep darkness;
    17: although there is no violence in my hands, and my prayer is pure.
    18: "O earth, cover not my blood, and let my cry find no resting place.
    19: Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and he that vouches for me is on high.
    20: My friends scorn me; my eye pours out tears to God,
    21: that he would maintain the right of a man with God, like that of a man with his neighbor.
    22: For when a few years have come I shall go the way whence I shall not return.

End of day 136.