Day 251:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me:
    2: "Son of man, propound a riddle, and speak an allegory to the house of Israel;
    3: say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A great eagle with great wings and long pinions, rich in plumage of many colors, came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar;
    4: he broke off the topmost of its young twigs and carried it to a land of trade, and set it in a city of merchants.
    5: Then he took of the seed of the land and planted it in fertile soil; he placed it beside abundant waters. He set it like a willow twig,
    6: and it sprouted and became a low spreading vine, and its branches turned toward him, and its roots remained where it stood. So it became a vine, and brought forth branches and put forth foliage.
    7: "But there was another great eagle with great wings and much plumage; and behold, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot forth its branches toward him that he might water it. From the bed where it was planted
    8: he transplanted it to good soil by abundant waters, that it might bring forth branches, and bear fruit, and become a noble vine.
    9: Say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its branches, so that all its fresh sprouting leaves wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it from its roots.
    10: Behold, when it is transplanted, will it thrive? Will it not utterly wither when the east wind strikes it -- wither away on the bed where it grew?"
    11: Then the word of the LORD came to me:
    12: "Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know what these things mean? Tell them, Behold, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took her king and her princes and brought them to him to Babylon.
    13: And he took one of the seed royal and made a covenant with him, putting him under oath. (The chief men of the land he had taken away,
    14: that the kingdom might be humble and not lift itself up, and that by keeping his covenant it might stand.)
    15: But he rebelled against him by sending ambassadors to Egypt, that they might give him horses and a large army. Will he succeed? Can a man escape who does such things? Can he break the covenant and yet escape?
    16: As I live, says the Lord GOD, surely in the place where the king dwells who made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant with him he broke, in Babylon he shall die.
    17: Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company will not help him in war, when mounds are cast up and siege walls built to cut off many lives.
    18: Because he despised the oath and broke the covenant, because he gave his hand and yet did all these things, he shall not escape.
    19: Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely my oath which he despised, and my covenant which he broke, I will requite upon his head.
    20: I will spread my net over him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon and enter into judgment with him there for the treason he has committed against me.
    21: And all the pick of his troops shall fall by the sword, and the survivors shall be scattered to every wind; and you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken."
    22: Thus says the Lord GOD: "I myself will take a sprig from the lofty top of the cedar, and will set it out; I will break off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I myself will plant it upon a high and lofty mountain;
    23: on the mountain height of Israel will I plant it, that it may bring forth boughs and bear fruit, and become a noble cedar; and under it will dwell all kinds of beasts; in the shade of its branches birds of every sort will nest.
    24: And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD bring low the high tree, and make high the low tree, dry up the green tree, and make the dry tree flourish. I the LORD have spoken, and I will do it."

  Chapter 18.

    1: The word of the LORD came to me again:
    2: "What do you mean by repeating this proverb concerning the land of Israel, `The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge'?
    3: As I live, says the Lord GOD, this proverb shall no more be used by you in Israel.
    4: Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sins shall die.
    5: "If a man is righteous and does what is lawful and right --
    6: if he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of impurity,
    7: does not oppress any one, but restores to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
    8: does not lend at interest or take any increase, withholds his hand from iniquity, executes true justice between man and man,
    9: walks in my statutes, and is careful to observe my ordinances -- he is righteous, he shall surely live, says the Lord GOD.
    10: "If he begets a son who is a robber, a shedder of blood,
    11: who does none of these duties, but eats upon the mountains, defiles his neighbor's wife,
    12: oppresses the poor and needy, commits robbery, does not restore the pledge, lifts up his eyes to the idols, commits abomination,
    13: lends at interest, and takes increase; shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these abominable things; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon himself.
    14: "But if this man begets a son who sees all the sins which his father has done, and fears, and does not do likewise,
    15: who does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife,
    16: does not wrong any one, exacts no pledge, commits no robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry and covers the naked with a garment,
    17: withholds his hand from iniquity, takes no interest or increase, observes my ordinances, and walks in my statutes; he shall not die for his father's iniquity; he shall surely live.
    18: As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what is not good among his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity.
    19: "Yet you say, `Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father?' When the son has done what is lawful and right, and has been careful to observe all my statutes, he shall surely live.
    20: The soul that sins shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself.
    21: "But if a wicked man turns away from all his sins which he has committed and keeps all my statutes and does what is lawful and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
    22: None of the transgressions which he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness which he has done he shall live.
    23: Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, says the Lord GOD, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?
    24: But when a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity and does the same abominable things that the wicked man does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds which he has done shall be remembered; for the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, he shall die.
    25: "Yet you say, `The way of the Lord is not just.' Hear now, O house of Israel: Is my way not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
    26: When a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity, he shall die for it; for the iniquity which he has committed he shall die.
    27: Again, when a wicked man turns away from the wickedness he has committed and does what is lawful and right, he shall save his life.
    28: Because he considered and turned away from all the transgressions which he had committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
    29: Yet the house of Israel says, `The way of the Lord is not just.' O house of Israel, are my ways not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
    30: "Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, says the Lord GOD. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin.
    31: Cast away from you all the transgressions which you have committed against me, and get yourselves a new heart and a new spirit! Why will you die, O house of Israel?
    32: For I have no pleasure in the death of any one, says the Lord GOD; so turn, and live."

  Chapter 19.

    1: And you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
    2: and say: What a lioness was your mother among lions! She couched in the midst of young lions, rearing her whelps.
    3: And she brought up one of her whelps; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men.
    4: The nations sounded an alarm against him; he was taken in their pit; and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.
    5: When she saw that she was baffled, that her hope was lost, she took another of her whelps and made him a young lion.
    6: He prowled among the lions; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men.
    7: And he ravaged their strongholds, and laid waste their cities; and the land was appalled and all who were in it at the sound of his roaring.
    8: Then the nations set against him snares on every side; they spread their net over him; he was taken in their pit.
    9: With hooks they put him in a cage, and brought him to the king of Babylon; they brought him into custody, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel.
    10: Your mother was like a vine in a vineyard transplanted by the water, fruitful and full of branches by reason of abundant water.
    11: Its strongest stem became a ruler's scepter; it towered aloft among the thick boughs; it was seen in its height with the mass of its branches.
    12: But the vine was plucked up in fury, cast down to the ground; the east wind dried it up; its fruit was stripped off, its strong stem was withered; the fire consumed it.
    13: Now it is transplanted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land.
    14: And fire has gone out from its stem, has consumed its branches and fruit, so that there remains in it no strong stem, no scepter for a ruler.This is a lamentation, and has become a lamentation.

  Chapter 20.

    1: In the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the LORD, and sat before me.
    2: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    3: "Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD, Is it to inquire of me that you come? As I live, says the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
    4: Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Then let them know the abominations of their fathers,
    5: and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day when I chose Israel, I swore to the seed of the house of Jacob, making myself known to them in the land of Egypt, I swore to them, saying, I am the LORD your God.
    6: On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands.
    7: And I said to them, Cast away the detestable things your eyes feast on, every one of you, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am the LORD your God.
    8: But they rebelled against me and would not listen to me; they did not every man cast away the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. "Then I thought I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
    9: But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they dwelt, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt.
    10: So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.
    11: I gave them my statutes and showed them my ordinances, by whose observance man shall live.
    12: Moreover I gave them my sabbaths, as a sign between me and them, that they might know that I the LORD sanctify them.
    13: But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness; they did not walk in my statutes but rejected my ordinances, by whose observance man shall live; and my sabbaths they greatly profaned. "Then I thought I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them.
    14: But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
    15: Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey, the most glorious of all lands,
    16: because they rejected my ordinances and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my sabbaths; for their heart went after their idols.
    17: Nevertheless my eye spared them, and I did not destroy them or make a full end of them in the wilderness.
    18: "And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statutes of your fathers, nor observe their ordinances, nor defile yourselves with their idols.
    19: I the LORD am your God; walk in my statutes, and be careful to observe my ordinances,
    20: and hallow my sabbaths that they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I the LORD am your God.
    21: But the children rebelled against me; they did not walk in my statutes, and were not careful to observe my ordinances, by whose observance man shall live; they profaned my sabbaths. "Then I thought I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness.
    22: But I withheld my hand, and acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
    23: Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries,
    24: because they had not executed my ordinances, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols.
    25: Moreover I gave them statutes that were not good and ordinances by which they could not have life;
    26: and I defiled them through their very gifts in making them offer by fire all their first-born, that I might horrify them; I did it that they might know that I am the LORD.
    27: "Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: In this again your fathers blasphemed me, by dealing treacherously with me.
    28: For when I had brought them into the land which I swore to give them, then wherever they saw any high hill or any leafy tree, there they offered their sacrifices and presented the provocation of their offering; there they sent up their soothing odors, and there they poured out their drink offerings.
    29: (I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? So its name is called Bamah to this day.)
    30: Wherefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will you defile yourselves after the manner of your fathers and go astray after their detestable things?
    31: When you offer your gifts and sacrifice your sons by fire, you defile yourselves with all your idols to this day. And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, says the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
    32: "What is in your mind shall never happen -- the thought, `Let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the countries, and worship wood and stone.'
    33: "As I live, says the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you.
    34: I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out;
    35: and I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face.
    36: As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, says the Lord GOD.
    37: I will make you pass under the rod, and I will let you go in by number.
    38: I will purge out the rebels from among you, and those who transgress against me; I will bring them out of the land where they sojourn, but they shall not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
    39: "As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord GOD: Go serve every one of you his idols, now and hereafter, if you will not listen to me; but my holy name you shall no more profane with your gifts and your idols.
    40: "For on my holy mountain, the mountain height of Israel, says the Lord GOD, there all the house of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land; there I will accept them, and there I will require your contributions and the choicest of your gifts, with all your sacred offerings.
    41: As a pleasing odor I will accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples, and gather you out of the countries where you have been scattered; and I will manifest my holiness among you in the sight of the nations.
    42: And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I bring you into the land of Israel, the country which I swore to give to your fathers.
    43: And there you shall remember your ways and all the doings with which you have polluted yourselves; and you shall loathe yourselves for all the evils that you have committed.
    44: And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I deal with you for my name's sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, O house of Israel, says the Lord GOD."
    45: And the word of the LORD came to me:
    46: "Son of man, set your face toward the south, preach against the south, and prophesy against the forest land in the Negeb;
    47: say to the forest of the Negeb, Hear the word of the LORD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you and every dry tree; the blazing flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it.
    48: All flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it; it shall not be quenched."
    49: Then I said, "Ah Lord GOD! they are saying of me, `Is he not a maker of allegories?'"

End of day 251.