Day 322:

Reading 2-Corinthians, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother. To the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Acha'ia:
    2: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
    3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,
    4: who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
    5: For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.
    6: If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer.
    7: Our hope for you is unshaken; for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort.
    8: For we do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, of the affliction we experienced in Asia; for we were so utterly, unbearably crushed that we despaired of life itself.
    9: Why, we felt that we had received the sentence of death; but that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead;
    10: he delivered us from so deadly a peril, and he will deliver us; on him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again.
    11: You also must help us by prayer, so that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us in answer to many prayers.
    12: For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience that we have behaved in the world, and still more toward you, with holiness and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God.
    13: For we write you nothing but what you can read and understand; I hope you will understand fully,
    14: as you have understood in part, that you can be proud of us as we can be of you, on the day of the Lord Jesus.
    15: Because I was sure of this, I wanted to come to you first, so that you might have a double pleasure;
    16: I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedo'nia, and to come back to you from Macedo'nia and have you send me on my way to Judea.
    17: Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans like a worldly man, ready to say Yes and No at once?
    18: As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been Yes and No.
    19: For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom we preached among you, Silva'nus and Timothy and I, was not Yes and No; but in him it is always Yes.
    20: For all the promises of God find their Yes in him. That is why we utter the Amen through him, to the glory of God.
    21: But it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has commissioned us;
    22: he has put his seal upon us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
    23: But I call God to witness against me -- it was to spare you that I refrained from coming to Corinth.
    24: Not that we lord it over your faith; we work with you for your joy, for you stand firm in your faith.

  Chapter 2.

    1: For I made up my mind not to make you another painful visit.
    2: For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
    3: And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice, for I felt sure of all of you, that my joy would be the joy of you all.
    4: For I wrote you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
    5: But if any one has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure --not to put it too severely -- to you all.
    6: For such a one this punishment by the majority is enough;
    7: so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
    8: So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
    9: For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything.
    10: Any one whom you forgive, I also forgive. What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ,
    11: to keep Satan from gaining the advantage over us; for we are not ignorant of his designs.
    12: When I came to Tro'as to preach the gospel of Christ, a door was opened for me in the Lord;
    13: but my mind could not rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedo'nia.
    14: But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumph, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.
    15: For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing,
    16: to one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
    17: For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word; but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need, as some do, letters of recommendation to you, or from you?
    2: You yourselves are our letter of recommendation, written on your hearts, to be known and read by all men;
    3: and you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.
    4: Such is the confidence that we have through Christ toward God.
    5: Not that we are competent of ourselves to claim anything as coming from us; our competence is from God,
    6: who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not in a written code but in the Spirit; for the written code kills, but the Spirit gives life.
    7: Now if the dispensation of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such splendor that the Israelites could not look at Moses' face because of its brightness, fading as this was,
    8: will not the dispensation of the Spirit be attended with greater splendor?
    9: For if there was splendor in the dispensation of condemnation, the dispensation of righteousness must far exceed it in splendor.
    10: Indeed, in this case, what once had splendor has come to have no splendor at all, because of the splendor that surpasses it.
    11: For if what faded away came with splendor, what is permanent must have much more splendor.
    12: Since we have such a hope, we are very bold,
    13: not like Moses, who put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not see the end of the fading splendor.
    14: But their minds were hardened; for to this day, when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away.
    15: Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their minds;
    16: but when a man turns to the Lord the veil is removed.
    17: Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
    18: And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being changed into his likeness from one degree of glory to another; for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart.
    2: We have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways; we refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word, but by the open statement of the truth we would commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.
    3: And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing.
    4: In their case the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the likeness of God.
    5: For what we preach is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake.
    6: For it is the God who said, "Let light shine out of darkness," who has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ.
    7: But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, to show that the transcendent power belongs to God and not to us.
    8: We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair;
    9: persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;
    10: always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.
    11: For while we live we are always being given up to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
    12: So death is at work in us, but life in you.
    13: Since we have the same spirit of faith as he had who wrote, "I believed, and so I spoke," we too believe, and so we speak,
    14: knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence.
    15: For it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people it may increase thanksgiving, to the glory of God.
    16: So we do not lose heart. Though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed every day.
    17: For this slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison,
    18: because we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen; for the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.

End of day 322.