Day 228:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['61', '62', '63', '64']:

  Chapter 61.

    1: The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me, because the LORD has anointed me to bring good tidings to the afflicted; he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound;
    2: to proclaim the year of the LORD's favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;
    3: to grant to those who mourn in Zion -- to give them a garland instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the mantle of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he may be glorified.
    4: They shall build up the ancient ruins, they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations.
    5: Aliens shall stand and feed your flocks, foreigners shall be your plowmen and vinedressers;
    6: but you shall be called the priests of the LORD, men shall speak of you as the ministers of our God; you shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their riches you shall glory.
    7: Instead of your shame you shall have a double portion, instead of dishonor you shall rejoice in your lot; therefore in your land you shall possess a double portion; yours shall be everlasting joy.
    8: For I the LORD love justice, I hate robbery and wrong; I will faithfully give them their recompense, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.
    9: Their descendants shall be known among the nations, and their offspring in the midst of the peoples; all who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are a people whom the LORD has blessed.
    10: I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall exult in my God; for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation, he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
    11: For as the earth brings forth its shoots, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to spring up, so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.

  Chapter 62.

    1: For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest, until her vindication goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch.
    2: The nations shall see your vindication, and all the kings your glory; and you shall be called by a new name which the mouth of the LORD will give.
    3: You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.
    4: You shall no more be termed Forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed Desolate; but you shall be called My delight is in her, and your land Married; for the LORD delights in you, and your land shall be married.
    5: For as a young man marries a virgin, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you.
    6: Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen; all the day and all the night they shall never be silent. You who put the LORD in remembrance, take no rest,
    7: and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth.
    8: The LORD has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm: "I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies, and foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored;
    9: but those who garner it shall eat it and praise the LORD, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary."
    10: Go through, go through the gates, prepare the way for the people; build up, build up the highway, clear it of stones, lift up an ensign over the peoples.
    11: Behold, the LORD has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the daughter of Zion, "Behold, your salvation comes; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him."
    12: And they shall be called The holy people, The redeemed of the LORD; and you shall be called Sought out, a city not forsaken.

  Chapter 63.

    1: Who is this that comes from Edom, in crimsoned garments from Bozrah, he that is glorious in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength? "It is I, announcing vindication, mighty to save."
    2: Why is thy apparel red, and thy garments like his that treads in the wine press?
    3: "I have trodden the wine press alone, and from the peoples no one was with me; I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath; their lifeblood is sprinkled upon my garments, and I have stained all my raiment.
    4: For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption has come.
    5: I looked, but there was no one to help; I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold; so my own arm brought me victory, and my wrath upheld me.
    6: I trod down the peoples in my anger, I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth."
    7: I will recount the steadfast love of the LORD, the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel which he has granted them according to his mercy, according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
    8: For he said, Surely they are my people, sons who will not deal falsely; and he became their Savior.
    9: In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
    10: But they rebelled and grieved his holy Spirit; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.
    11: Then he remembered the days of old, of Moses his servant. Where is he who brought up out of the sea the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his holy Spirit,
    12: who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them to make for himself an everlasting name,
    13: who led them through the depths? Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble.
    14: Like cattle that go down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD gave them rest. So thou didst lead thy people, to make for thyself a glorious name.
    15: Look down from heaven and see, from thy holy and glorious habitation. Where are thy zeal and thy might? The yearning of thy heart and thy compassion are withheld from me.
    16: For thou art our Father, though Abraham does not know us and Israel does not acknowledge us; thou, O LORD, art our Father, our Redeemer from of old is thy name.
    17: O LORD, why dost thou make us err from thy ways and harden our heart, so that we fear thee not? Return for the sake of thy servants, the tribes of thy heritage.
    18: Thy holy people possessed thy sanctuary a little while; our adversaries have trodden it down.
    19: We have become like those over whom thou hast never ruled, like those who are not called by thy name.

  Chapter 64.

    1: O that thou wouldst rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at thy presence --
    2: as when fire kindles brushwood and the fire causes water to boil -- to make thy name known to thy adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at thy presence!
    3: When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains quaked at thy presence.
    4: From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides thee, who works for those who wait for him.
    5: Thou meetest him that joyfully works righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways. Behold, thou wast angry, and we sinned; in our sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved?
    6: We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.
    7: There is no one that calls upon thy name, that bestirs himself to take hold of thee; for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast delivered us into the hand of our iniquities.
    8: Yet, O LORD, thou art our Father; we are the clay, and thou art our potter; we are all the work of thy hand.
    9: Be not exceedingly angry, O LORD, and remember not iniquity for ever. Behold, consider, we are all thy people.
    10: Thy holy cities have become a wilderness, Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
    11: Our holy and beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become ruins.
    12: Wilt thou restrain thyself at these things, O LORD? Wilt thou keep silent, and afflict us sorely?

End of day 228.