Day 154:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Blessed is he who considers the poor! The LORD delivers him in the day of trouble;
    2: the LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; thou dost not give him up to the will of his enemies.
    3: The LORD sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness thou healest all his infirmities.
    4: As for me, I said, "O LORD, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against thee!"
    5: My enemies say of me in malice: "When will he die, and his name perish?"
    6: And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers mischief; when he goes out, he tells it abroad.
    7: All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.
    8: They say, "A deadly thing has fastened upon him; he will not rise again from where he lies."
    9: Even my bosom friend in whom I trusted, who ate of my bread, has lifted his heel against me.
    10: But do thou, O LORD, be gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may requite them!
    11: By this I know that thou art pleased with me, in that my enemy has not triumphed over me.
    12: But thou hast upheld me because of my integrity, and set me in thy presence for ever.
    13: Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen.

  Chapter 42.

    1: As a hart longs for flowing streams, so longs my soul for thee, O God.
    2: My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and behold the face of God?
    3: My tears have been my food day and night, while men say to me continually, "Where is your God?"
    4: These things I remember, as I pour out my soul: how I went with the throng, and led them in procession to the house of God, with glad shouts and songs of thanksgiving, a multitude keeping festival.
    5: Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my help
    6: and my God. My soul is cast down within me, therefore I remember thee from the land of Jordan and of Hermon, from Mount Mizar.
    7: Deep calls to deep at the thunder of thy cataracts; all thy waves and thy billows have gone over me.
    8: By day the LORD commands his steadfast love; and at night his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life.
    9: I say to God, my rock: "Why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?"
    10: As with a deadly wound in my body, my adversaries taunt me, while they say to me continually, "Where is your God?"
    11: Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my help and my God.

  Chapter 43.

    1: Vindicate me, O God, and defend my cause against an ungodly people; from deceitful and unjust men deliver me!
    2: For thou art the God in whom I take refuge; why hast thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
    3: Oh send out thy light and thy truth; let them lead me, let them bring me to thy holy hill and to thy dwelling!
    4: Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy; and I will praise thee with the lyre, O God, my God.
    5: Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my help and my God.

  Chapter 44.

    1: We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what deeds thou didst perform in their days, in the days of old:
    2: thou with thy own hand didst drive out the nations, but them thou didst plant; thou didst afflict the peoples, but them thou didst set free;
    3: for not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm give them victory; but thy right hand, and thy arm, and the light of thy countenance; for thou didst delight in them.
    4: Thou art my King and my God, who ordainest victories for Jacob.
    5: Through thee we push down our foes; through thy name we tread down our assailants.
    6: For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me.
    7: But thou hast saved us from our foes, and hast put to confusion those who hate us.
    8: In God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to thy name for ever. [Selah]
    9: Yet thou hast cast us off and abased us, and hast not gone out with our armies.
    10: Thou hast made us turn back from the foe; and our enemies have gotten spoil.
    11: Thou hast made us like sheep for slaughter, and hast scattered us among the nations.
    12: Thou hast sold thy people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them.
    13: Thou hast made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those about us.
    14: Thou hast made us a byword among the nations, a laughingstock among the peoples.
    15: All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face,
    16: at the words of the taunters and revilers, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger.
    17: All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten thee, or been false to thy covenant.
    18: Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from thy way,
    19: that thou shouldst have broken us in the place of jackals, and covered us with deep darkness.
    20: If we had forgotten the name of our God, or spread forth our hands to a strange god,
    21: would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
    22: Nay, for thy sake we are slain all the day long, and accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
    23: Rouse thyself! Why sleepest thou, O Lord? Awake! Do not cast us off for ever!
    24: Why dost thou hide thy face? Why dost thou forget our affliction and oppression?
    25: For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our body cleaves to the ground.
    26: Rise up, come to our help! Deliver us for the sake of thy steadfast love!

End of day 154.