Day 155:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: My heart overflows with a goodly theme; I address my verses to the king; my tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe.
    2: You are the fairest of the sons of men; grace is poured upon your lips; therefore God has blessed you for ever.
    3: Gird your sword upon your thigh, O mighty one, in your glory and majesty!
    4: In your majesty ride forth victoriously for the cause of truth and to defend the right; let your right hand teach you dread deeds!
    5: Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you.
    6: Your divine throne endures for ever and ever. Your royal scepter is a scepter of equity;
    7: you love righteousness and hate wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows;
    8: your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad;
    9: daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor; at your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir.
    10: Hear, O daughter, consider, and incline your ear; forget your people and your father's house;
    11: and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your lord, bow to him;
    12: the people of Tyre will sue your favor with gifts, the richest of the people
    13: with all kinds of wealth. The princess is decked in her chamber with gold-woven robes;
    14: in many-colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions, her escort, in her train.
    15: With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king.
    16: Instead of your fathers shall be your sons; you will make them princes in all the earth.
    17: I will cause your name to be celebrated in all generations; therefore the peoples will praise you for ever and ever.

  Chapter 46.

    1: God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
    2: Therefore we will not fear though the earth should change, though the mountains shake in the heart of the sea;
    3: though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble with its tumult. [Selah]
    4: There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High.
    5: God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God will help her right early.
    6: The nations rage, the kingdoms totter; he utters his voice, the earth melts.
    7: The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. [Selah]
    8: Come, behold the works of the LORD, how he has wrought desolations in the earth.
    9: He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; he breaks the bow, and shatters the spear, he burns the chariots with fire!
    10: "Be still, and know that I am God. I am exalted among the nations, I am exalted in the earth!"
    11: The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. [Selah]

  Chapter 47.

    1: Clap your hands, all peoples! Shout to God with loud songs of joy!
    2: For the LORD, the Most High, is terrible, a great king over all the earth.
    3: He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet.
    4: He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loves. [Selah]
    5: God has gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
    6: Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!
    7: For God is the king of all the earth; sing praises with a psalm!
    8: God reigns over the nations; God sits on his holy throne.
    9: The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God; he is highly exalted!

  Chapter 48.

    1: Great is the LORD and greatly to be praised in the city of our God! His holy mountain,
    2: beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth, Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great King.
    3: Within her citadels God has shown himself a sure defense.
    4: For lo, the kings assembled, they came on together.
    5: As soon as they saw it, they were astounded, they were in panic, they took to flight;
    6: trembling took hold of them there, anguish as of a woman in travail.
    7: By the east wind thou didst shatter the ships of Tarshish.
    8: As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God, which God establishes for ever. [Selah]
    9: We have thought on thy steadfast love, O God, in the midst of thy temple.
    10: As thy name, O God, so thy praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is filled with victory;
    11: let Mount Zion be glad! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of thy judgments!
    12: Walk about Zion, go round about her, number her towers,
    13: consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels; that you may tell the next generation
    14: that this is God, our God for ever and ever. He will be our guide for ever.

End of day 155.