Day 261:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: It was the first year that Darius, son of Ahasuerus, of the race of the Medes, reigned over the kingdom of the Chaldeans;
    2: in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, tried to understand in the Scriptures the counting of the years of which the LORD spoke to the prophet Jeremiah: that for the ruins of Jerusalem seventy years must be fulfilled.
    3: I turned to the Lord God, pleading in earnest prayer, with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes.
    4: I prayed to the LORD, my God, and confessed, "Ah, Lord, great and awesome God, you who keep your merciful covenant toward those who love you and observe your commandments!
    5: We have sinned, been wicked and done evil; we have rebelled and departed from your commandments and your laws.
    6: We have not obeyed your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, our fathers, and all the people of the land.
    7: Justice, O Lord, is on your side; we are shamefaced even to this day: the men of Judah, the residents of Jerusalem, and all Israel, near and far, in all the countries to which you have scattered them because of their treachery toward you.
    8: O LORD, we are shamefaced, like our kings, our princes, and our fathers, for having sinned against you.
    9: But yours, O Lord, our God, are compassion and forgiveness! Yet we rebelled against you
    10: and paid no heed to your command, O LORD, our God, to live by the law you gave us through your servants the prophets.
    11: Because all Israel transgressed your law and went astray, not heeding your voice, the sworn malediction, recorded in the law of Moses, the servant of God, was poured out over us for our sins.
    12: You carried out the threats you spoke against us and against those who governed us, by bringing upon us in Jerusalem the greatest calamity that has ever occurred under heaven.
    13: As it is written in the law of Moses, this calamity came full upon us. As we did not appease the LORD, our God, by turning back from our wickedness and recognizing his constancy,
    14: so the LORD kept watch over the calamity and brought it upon us. You, O LORD, our God, are just in all that you have done, for we did not listen to your voice.
    15: "Now, O Lord, our God, who led your people out of the land of Egypt with a strong hand, and made a name for yourself even to this day, we have sinned, we are guilty.
    16: O Lord, in keeping with all your just deeds, let your anger and your wrath be turned away from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain. On account of our sins and the crimes of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become the reproach of all our neighbors.
    17: Hear, therefore, O God, the prayer and petition of your servant; and for your own sake, O Lord, let your face shine upon your desolate sanctuary.
    18: Give ear, O my God, and listen; open your eyes and see our ruins and the city which bears your name. When we present our petition before you, we rely not on our just deeds, but on your great mercy.
    19: O Lord, hear! O Lord, pardon! O Lord, be attentive and act without delay, for your own sake, O my God, because this city and your people bear your name!"
    20: I was still occupied with my prayer, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, presenting my petition to the LORD, my God, on behalf of his holy mountain--
    21: I was still occupied with this prayer, when Gabriel, the one whom I had seen before in vision, came to me in rapid flight at the time of the evening sacrifice.
    22: He instructed me in these words: "Daniel, I have now come to give you understanding.
    23: When you began your petition, an answer was given which I have come to announce, because you are beloved. Therefore, mark the answer and understand the vision.
    24: "Seventy weeks are decreed for your people and for your holy city: Then transgression will stop and sin will end, guilt will be expiated, Everlasting justice will be introduced, vision and prophecy ratified, and a most holy will be anointed.
    25: Know and understand this: From the utterance of the word that Jerusalem was to be rebuilt Until one who is anointed and a leader, there shall be seven weeks. During sixty-two weeks it shall be rebuilt, With streets and trenches, in time of affliction.
    26: After the sixty-two weeks an anointed shall be cut down when he does not possess the city; And the people of a leader who will come shall destroy the sanctuary. Then the end shall come like a torrent; until the end there shall be war, the desolation that is decreed.
    27: For one week he shall make a firm compact with the many; Half the week he shall abolish sacrifice and oblation; On the temple wing shall be the horrible abomination until the ruin that is decreed is poured out upon the horror."

  Chapter 10.

    1: In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a revelation was given to Daniel, who had been named Belteshazzar. The revelation was certain: a great war; he understood it from the vision.
    2: In those days, I, Daniel, mourned three full weeks.
    3: I ate no savory food, I took no meat or wine, and I did not anoint myself at all until the end of the three weeks.
    4: On the twenty-fourth day of the first month I was on the bank of the great river, the Tigris.
    5: As I looked up, I saw a man dressed in linen with a belt of fine gold around his waist.
    6: His body was like chrysolite, his face shown like lightning, his eyes were like fiery torches, his arms and feet looked like burnished bronze, and his voice sounded like the roar of a multitude.
    7: I alone, Daniel, saw the vision; but great fear seized the men who were with me; they fled and hid themselves, although they did not see the vision.
    8: So I was left alone, seeing this great vision. No strength remained in me; I turned the color of death and was powerless.
    9: When I heard the sound of his voice, I fell face forward in a faint.
    10: But then a hand touched me, raising me to my hands and knees.
    11: "Daniel, beloved," he said to me, "understand the words which I am speaking to you; stand up, for my mission now is to you." When he said this to me, I stood up trembling.
    12: "Fear not, Daniel," he continued; "from the first day you made up your mind to acquire understanding and humble yourself before God, your prayer was heard. Because of it I started out,
    13: but the prince of the kingdom of Persia stood in my way for twenty-one days, until finally Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. I left him there with the prince of the kings of Persia,
    14: and came to make you understand what shall happen to your people in the days to come; for there is yet a vision concerning those days."
    15: While he was speaking thus to me, I fell forward and kept silent.
    16: Then something like a man's hand touched my lips; I opened my mouth and said to the one facing me, "My lord, I was seized with pangs at the vision and I was powerless.
    17: How can my lord's servant speak with you, my lord? For now no strength or even breath is left in me."
    18: The one who looked like a man touched me again and strengthened me, saying,
    19: "Fear not, beloved, you are safe; take courage and be strong."
    20: When he spoke to me, I grew strong and said, "Speak, my lord, for you have strengthened me." "Do you know," he asked, "why I have come to you? Soon I must fight the prince of Persia again. When I leave, the prince of Greece will come;
    21: but I shall tell you what is written in the truthful book. No one supports me against all these except Michael, your prince,

  Chapter 11.

    1: standing as a reinforcement and a bulwark for me.
    2: Now I shall tell you the truth. "Three kings of Persia are yet to come; and a fourth shall acquire the greatest riches of all. Strengthened by his riches, he shall rouse all the kingdom of Greece.
    3: But a powerful king shall appear and rule with great might, doing as he pleases.
    4: No sooner shall he appear than his kingdom shall be broken and divided in four directions under heaven; but not among his descendants or in keeping with his mighty rule, for his kingdom shall be torn to pieces and belong to others than they.
    5: "The king of the south shall grow strong, but one of his princes shall grow stronger still and govern a domain greater than his.
    6: After some years they shall become allies: the daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north in the interest of peace. But her bid for power shall fail: and her line shall not be recognized, and she shall be given up, together with those who brought her, her son and her husband. But later
    7: a descendant of her line shall succeed to his rank, and shall come against the rampart and enter the stronghold of the king of the north, and conquer them.
    8: Even their gods, with their molten images and their precious vessels of silver and gold, he shall carry away as booty into Egypt. For years he shall have nothing to do with the king of the north.
    9: Then the latter shall invade the land of the king of the south, and return to his own country.
    10: "But his sons shall prepare and assemble a great armed host, which shall advance like a flood, then withdraw. When it returns and surges around the stronghold,
    11: the king of the south, provoked, shall go out to fight against the king of the north, whose great host shall make a stand but shall be given into his hand
    12: and be carried off. In the pride of his heart, he shall lay low tens of thousands, but he shall not triumph.
    13: For the king of the north shall raise another army, greater than before; after some years he shall attack with this large army and great resources.
    14: In those times many shall resist the king of the south, and outlaws of your people shall rise up in fulfillment of vision, but they shall fail.
    15: When the king of the north comes, he shall set up siegeworks and take the fortified city by storm. The power of the south shall not withstand him, and not even his picked troops shall have the strength to resist.
    16: He shall attack him and do as he pleases, with no one to withstand him. He shall stop in the glorious land, dealing destruction.
    17: He shall set himself to penetrate the entire strength of his kingdom. He shall conclude an agreement with him and give him a daughter in marriage in order to destroy the kingdom, but this shall not succeed in his favor.
    18: He shall turn to the coastland and take many, but a leader shall put an end to his shameful conduct, so that he cannot renew it against him.
    19: He shall turn to the strongholds of his own land, but shall stumble and fall, to be found no more.
    20: In his stead one shall arise who will send a tax collector through the glorious kingdom, but he shall soon be destroyed, though not in conflict or in battle.
    21: "There shall rise in his place a despicable person, to whom the royal insignia shall not be given. By stealth and fraud he shall seize the kingdom.
    22: Armed might shall be completely overwhelmed by him and crushed, and even the prince of the covenant.
    23: After allying with him, he shall treacherously rise to power with a small party.
    24: By stealth he shall enter prosperous provinces and do that which his fathers or grandfathers never did; he shall distribute spoil, booty, and riches among them and devise plots against their strongholds; but only for a time.
    25: He shall call on his strength and cleverness to meet the king of the south with a great army; the king of the south shall prepare for battle with a very large and strong army, but he shall not succeed because of the plots devised against him.
    26: Even his table companions shall seek to destroy him, his army shall be overwhelmed, and many shall fall slain.
    27: The two kings, resolved on evil, shall sit at table together and exchange lies, but they shall have no success, because the appointed end is not yet.
    28: "He shall turn back toward his land with great riches, his mind set against the holy covenant; he shall arrange matters and return to his land.
    29: At the time appointed he shall come again to the south, but this time it shall not be as before.
    30: When ships of the Kittim confront him, he shall lose heart and retreat. Then he shall direct his rage and energy against the holy covenant; those who forsake it he shall once more single out.
    31: Armed forces shall move at his command and defile the sanctuary stronghold, abolishing the daily sacrifice and setting up the horrible abomination.
    32: By his deceit he shall make some who were disloyal to the covenant apostatize; but those who remain loyal to their God shall take strong action.
    33: The nation's wise men shall instruct the many; though for a time they will become victims of the sword, of flames, exile, and plunder.
    34: When they fall, few people shall help them, but many shall join them out of treachery.
    35: Of the wise men, some shall fall, so that the rest may be tested, refined, and purified, until the end time which is still appointed to come.
    36: "The king shall do as he pleases, exalting himself and making himself greater than any god; he shall utter dreadful blasphemies against the God of gods. He shall prosper only till divine wrath is ready, for what is determined must take place.
    37: He shall have no regard for the gods of his ancestors or for the one in whom women delight; for no god shall he have regard, because he shall make himself greater than all.
    38: Instead, he shall give glory to the god of strongholds; a god unknown to his fathers he shall glorify with gold, silver, precious stones, and other treasures.
    39: To defend the strongholds he shall station a people of a foreign god. Whoever acknowledges him he shall provide with abundant honor; he shall make them rule over the many and distribute the land as a reward.
    40: "At the appointed time the king of the south shall come to grips with him, but the king of the north shall overwhelm him with chariots and horsemen and a great fleet, passing through the countries like a flood.
    41: He shall enter the glorious land and many shall fall, except Edom, Moab, and the chief part of Ammon, which shall escape from his power.
    42: He shall extend his power over the countries, and not even the land of Egypt shall escape.
    43: He shall control the riches of gold and silver and all the treasures of Egypt; Libya and Ethiopia shall be in his train.
    44: When news from the east and the north terrifies him, he shall set out with great fury to slay and to doom many.
    45: He shall pitch the tents of his royal pavilion between the sea and the glorious holy mountain, but he shall come to his end with none to help him.

  Chapter 12.

    1: "At that time there shall arise Michael, the great prince, guardian of your people; It shall be a time unsurpassed in distress since nations began until that time. At that time your people shall escape, everyone who is found written in the book.
    2: Many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake; some shall live forever, others shall be an everlasting horror and disgrace.
    3: But the wise shall shine brightly like the splendor of the firmament, And those who lead the many to justice shall be like the stars forever.
    4: "As for you, Daniel, keep secret the message and seal the book until the end time; many shall fall away and evil shall increase."
    5: I, Daniel, looked and saw two others, one standing on either bank of the river.
    6: One of them said to the man clothed in linen, who was upstream, "How long shall it be to the end of these appalling things?"
    7: The man clothed in linen, who was upstream, lifted his right and left hands to heaven; and I heard him swear by him who lives forever that it should be for a year, two years, a half-year; and that, when the power of the destroyer of the holy people was brought to an end, all these things should end.
    8: I heard, but I did not understand; so I asked, "My lord, what follows this?"
    9: "Go, Daniel," he said, "because the words are to be kept secret and sealed until the end time.
    10: Many shall be refined, purified, and tested, but the wicked shall prove wicked; none of them shall have understanding, but the wise shall have it.
    11: From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished and the horrible abomination is set up, there shall be one thousand two hundred and ninety days.
    12: Blessed is the man who has patience and perseveres until the one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days.
    13: Go, take your rest, you shall rise for your reward at the end of days."

End of day 261.