Day 257:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Then he brought me to the nave, and measured the jambs; on each side six cubits was the breadth of the jambs.
    2: And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits; and the sidewalls of the entrance were five cubits on either side; and he measured the length of the nave forty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits.
    3: Then he went into the inner room and measured the jambs of the entrance, two cubits; and the breadth of the entrance, six cubits; and the sidewalls of the entrance, seven cubits.
    4: And he measured the length of the room, twenty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits, beyond the nave. And he said to me, This is the most holy place.
    5: Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick; and the breadth of the side chambers, four cubits, round about the temple.
    6: And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, thirty in each story. There were offsets all around the wall of the temple to serve as supports for the side chambers, so that they should not be supported by the wall of the temple.
    7: And the side chambers became broader as they rose from story to story, corresponding to the enlargement of the offset from story to story round about the temple; on the side of the temple a stairway led upward, and thus one went up from the lowest story to the top story through the middle story.
    8: I saw also that the temple had a raised platform round about; the foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed of six long cubits.
    9: The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits; and the part of the platform which was left free was five cubits. Between the platform of the temple and the
    10: chambers of the court was a breadth of twenty cubits round about the temple on every side.
    11: And the doors of the side chambers opened on the part of the platform that was left free, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south; and the breadth of the part that was left free was five cubits round about.
    12: The building that was facing the temple yard on the west side was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick round about, and its length ninety cubits.
    13: Then he measured the temple, a hundred cubits long; and the yard and the building with its walls, a hundred cubits long;
    14: also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard, a hundred cubits.
    15: Then he measured the length of the building facing the yard which was at the west and its walls on either side, a hundred cubits. The nave of the temple and the inner room and the outer vestibule
    16: were paneled and round about all three had windows with recessed frames. Over against the threshold the temple was paneled with wood round about, from the floor up to the windows (now the windows were covered),
    17: to the space above the door, even to the inner room, and on the outside. And on all the walls round about in the inner room and the nave were carved likenesses
    18: of cherubim and palm trees, a palm tree between cherub and cherub. Every cherub had two faces:
    19: the face of a man toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple round about;
    20: from the floor to above the door cherubim and palm trees were carved on the wall.
    21: The doorposts of the nave were squared; and in front of the holy place was something resembling
    22: an altar of wood, three cubits high, two cubits long, and two cubits broad; its corners, its base, and its walls were of wood. He said to me, "This is the table which is before the LORD."
    23: The nave and the holy place had each a double door.
    24: The doors had two leaves apiece, two swinging leaves for each door.
    25: And on the doors of the nave were carved cherubim and palm trees, such as were carved on the walls; and there was a canopy of wood in front of the vestibule outside.
    26: And there were recessed windows and palm trees on either side, on the sidewalls of the vestibule.

  Chapter 42.

    1: Then he led me out into the inner court, toward the north, and he brought me to the chambers which were opposite the temple yard and opposite the building on the north.
    2: The length of the building which was on the north side was a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty cubits.
    3: Adjoining the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and facing the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was gallery against gallery in three stories.
    4: And before the chambers was a passage inward, ten cubits wide and a hundred cubits long, and their doors were on the north.
    5: Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took more away from them than from the lower and middle chambers in the building.
    6: For they were in three stories, and they had no pillars like the pillars of the outer court; hence the upper chambers were set back from the ground more than the lower and the middle ones.
    7: And there was a wall outside parallel to the chambers, toward the outer court, opposite the chambers, fifty cubits long.
    8: For the chambers on the outer court were fifty cubits long, while those opposite the temple were a hundred cubits long.
    9: Below these chambers was an entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court,
    10: where the outside wall begins. On the south also, opposite the yard and opposite the building, there were chambers
    11: with a passage in front of them; they were similar to the chambers on the north, of the same length and breadth, with the same exits and arrangements and doors.
    12: And below the south chambers was an entrance on the east side, where one enters the passage, and opposite them was a dividing wall.
    13: Then he said to me, "The north chambers and the south chambers opposite the yard are the holy chambers, where the priests who approach the LORD shall eat the most holy offerings; there they shall put the most holy offerings -- the cereal offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, for the place is holy.
    14: When the priests enter the holy place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court without laying there the garments in which they minister, for these are holy; they shall put on other garments before they go near to that which is for the people."
    15: Now when he had finished measuring the interior of the temple area, he led me out by the gate which faced east, and measured the temple area round about.
    16: He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred cubits by the measuring reed.
    17: Then he turned and measured the north side, five hundred cubits by the measuring reed.
    18: Then he turned and measured the south side, five hundred cubits by the measuring reed.
    19: Then he turned to the west side and measured, five hundred cubits by the measuring reed.
    20: He measured it on the four sides. It had a wall around it, five hundred cubits long and five hundred cubits broad, to make a separation between the holy and the common.

  Chapter 43.

    1: Afterward he brought me to the gate, the gate facing east.
    2: And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the east; and the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shone with his glory.
    3: And the vision I saw was like the vision which I had seen when he came to destroy the city, and like the vision which I had seen by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face.
    4: As the glory of the LORD entered the temple by the gate facing east,
    5: the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me into the inner court; and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
    6: While the man was standing beside me, I heard one speaking to me out of the temple;
    7: and he said to me, "Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the people of Israel for ever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their harlotry, and by the dead bodies of their kings,
    8: by setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall between me and them. They have defiled my holy name by their abominations which they have committed, so I have consumed them in my anger.
    9: Now let them put away their idolatry and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in their midst for ever.
    10: "And you, son of man, describe to the house of Israel the temple and its appearance and plan, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities.
    11: And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, portray the temple, its arrangement, its exits and its entrances, and its whole form; and make known to them all its ordinances and all its laws; and write it down in their sight, so that they may observe and perform all its laws and all its ordinances.
    12: This is the law of the temple: the whole territory round about upon the top of the mountain shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the temple.
    13: "These are the dimensions of the altar by cubits (the cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth): its base shall be one cubit high, and one cubit broad, with a rim of one span around its edge. And this shall be the height of the altar:
    14: from the base on the ground to the lower ledge, two cubits, with a breadth of one cubit; and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge, four cubits, with a breadth of one cubit;
    15: and the altar hearth, four cubits; and from the altar hearth projecting upward, four horns, one cubit high.
    16: The altar hearth shall be square, twelve cubits long by twelve broad.
    17: The ledge also shall be square, fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad, with a rim around it half a cubit broad, and its base one cubit round about. The steps of the altar shall face east."
    18: And he said to me, "Son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: These are the ordinances for the altar: On the day when it is erected for offering burnt offerings upon it and for throwing blood against it,
    19: you shall give to the Levitical priests of the family of Zadok, who draw near to me to minister to me, says the Lord GOD, a bull for a sin offering.
    20: And you shall take some of its blood, and put it on the four horns of the altar, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the rim round about; thus you shall cleanse the altar and make atonement for it.
    21: You shall also take the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place belonging to the temple, outside the sacred area.
    22: And on the second day you shall offer a he-goat without blemish for a sin offering; and the altar shall be cleansed, as it was cleansed with the bull.
    23: When you have finished cleansing it, you shall offer a bull without blemish and a ram from the flock without blemish.
    24: You shall present them before the LORD, and the priests shall sprinkle salt upon them and offer them up as a burnt offering to the LORD.
    25: For seven days you shall provide daily a goat for a sin offering; also a bull and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be provided.
    26: Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and purify it, and so consecrate it.
    27: And when they have completed these days, then from the eighth day onward the priests shall offer upon the altar your burnt offerings and your peace offerings; and I will accept you, says the Lord GOD."

  Chapter 44.

    1: Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east; and it was shut.
    2: And he said to me, "This gate shall remain shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it; for the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered by it; therefore it shall remain shut.
    3: Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the LORD; he shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way."
    4: Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple; and I looked, and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the temple of the LORD; and I fell upon my face.
    5: And the LORD said to me, "Son of man, mark well, see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I shall tell you concerning all the ordinances of the temple of the LORD and all its laws; and mark well those who may be admitted to the temple and all those who are to be excluded from the sanctuary.
    6: And say to the rebellious house, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: O house of Israel, let there be an end to all your abominations,
    7: in admitting foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, to be in my sanctuary, profaning it, when you offer to me my food, the fat and the blood. You have broken my covenant, in addition to all your abominations.
    8: And you have not kept charge of my holy things; but you have set foreigners to keep my charge in my sanctuary.
    9: "Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the people of Israel, shall enter my sanctuary.
    10: But the Levites who went far from me, going astray from me after their idols when Israel went astray, shall bear their punishment.
    11: They shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the temple, and serving in the temple; they shall slay the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall attend on the people, to serve them.
    12: Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them, says the Lord GOD, that they shall bear their punishment.
    13: They shall not come near to me, to serve me as priest, nor come near any of my sacred things and the things that are most sacred; but they shall bear their shame, because of the abominations which they have committed.
    14: Yet I will appoint them to keep charge of the temple, to do all its service and all that is to be done in it.
    15: "But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the people of Israel went astray from me, shall come near to me to minister to me; and they shall attend on me to offer me the fat and the blood, says the Lord GOD;
    16: they shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table, to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge.
    17: When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments; they shall have nothing of wool on them, while they minister at the gates of the inner court, and within.
    18: They shall have linen turbans upon their heads, and linen breeches upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves with anything that causes sweat.
    19: And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they have been ministering, and lay them in the holy chambers; and they shall put on other garments, lest they communicate holiness to the people with their garments.
    20: They shall not shave their heads or let their locks grow long; they shall only trim the hair of their heads.
    21: No priest shall drink wine, when he enters the inner court.
    22: They shall not marry a widow, or a divorced woman, but only a virgin of the stock of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
    23: They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common, and show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean.
    24: In a controversy they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my sabbaths holy.
    25: They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person; however, for father or mother, for son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister they may defile themselves.
    26: After he is defiled, he shall count for himself seven days, and then he shall be clean.
    27: And on the day that he goes into the holy place, into the inner court, to minister in the holy place, he shall offer his sin offering, says the Lord GOD.
    28: "They shall have no inheritance; I am their inheritance: and you shall give them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
    29: They shall eat the cereal offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering; and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
    30: And the first of all the first fruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds from all your offerings, shall belong to the priests; you shall also give to the priests the first of your coarse meal, that a blessing may rest on your house.
    31: The priests shall not eat of anything, whether bird or beast, that has died of itself or is torn.

End of day 257.