Day 354:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants what must soon take place; and he made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,
    2: who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw.
    3: Blessed is he who reads aloud the words of the prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written therein; for the time is near.
    4: John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne,
    5: and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the first-born of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood
    6: and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
    7: Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, every one who pierced him; and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen.
    8: "I am the Alpha and the Omega," says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
    9: I John, your brother, who share with you in Jesus the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
    10: I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet
    11: saying, "Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Per'gamum and to Thyati'ra and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to La-odice'a."
    12: Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands,
    13: and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden girdle round his breast;
    14: his head and his hair were white as white wool, white as snow; his eyes were like a flame of fire,
    15: his feet were like burnished bronze, refined as in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of many waters;
    16: in his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth issued a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength.
    17: When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand upon me, saying, "Fear not, I am the first and the last,
    18: and the living one; I died, and behold I am alive for evermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades.
    19: Now write what you see, what is and what is to take place hereafter.
    20: As for the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.

  Chapter 2.

    1: "To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: `The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands.
    2: "`I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear evil men but have tested those who call themselves apostles but are not, and found them to be false;
    3: I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary.
    4: But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.
    5: Remember then from what you have fallen, repent and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.
    6: Yet this you have, you hate the works of the Nicola'itans, which I also hate.
    7: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.'
    8: "And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: `The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life.
    9: "`I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
    10: Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.
    11: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who conquers shall not be hurt by the second death.'
    12: "And to the angel of the church in Per'gamum write: `The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword.
    13: "`I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is; you hold fast my name and you did not deny my faith even in the days of An'tipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
    14: But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice immorality.
    15: So you also have some who hold the teaching of the Nicola'itans.
    16: Repent then. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth.
    17: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone which no one knows except him who receives it.'
    18: "And to the angel of the church in Thyati'ra write: `The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
    19: "`I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.
    20: But I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman Jez'ebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and beguiling my servants to practice immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.
    21: I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her immorality.
    22: Behold, I will throw her on a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her doings;
    23: and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches shall know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you as your works deserve.
    24: But to the rest of you in Thyati'ra, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay upon you any other burden;
    25: only hold fast what you have, until I come.
    26: He who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, I will give him power over the nations,
    27: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received power from my Father;
    28: and I will give him the morning star.
    29: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'

  Chapter 3.

    1: "And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: `The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. "`I know your works; you have the name of being alive, and you are dead.
    2: Awake, and strengthen what remains and is on the point of death, for I have not found your works perfect in the sight of my God.
    3: Remember then what you received and heard; keep that, and repent. If you will not awake, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come upon you.
    4: Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
    5: He who conquers shall be clad thus in white garments, and I will not blot his name out of the book of life; I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
    6: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
    7: "And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: `The words of the holy one, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one shall shut, who shuts and no one opens.
    8: "`I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut; I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
    9: Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie -- behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and learn that I have loved you.
    10: Because you have kept my word of patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial which is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell upon the earth.
    11: I am coming soon; hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.
    12: He who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God; never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name.
    13: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'
    14: "And to the angel of the church in La-odice'a write: `The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation.
    15: "`I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were cold or hot!
    16: So, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew you out of my mouth.
    17: For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing; not knowing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.
    18: Therefore I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, that you may be rich, and white garments to clothe you and to keep the shame of your nakedness from being seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, that you may see.
    19: Those whom I love, I reprove and chasten; so be zealous and repent.
    20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any one hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.
    21: He who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I myself conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
    22: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'"

  Chapter 4.

    1: After this I looked, and lo, in heaven an open door! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, "Come up hither, and I will show you what must take place after this."
    2: At once I was in the Spirit, and lo, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne!
    3: And he who sat there appeared like jasper and carnelian, and round the throne was a rainbow that looked like an emerald.
    4: Round the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clad in white garments, with golden crowns upon their heads.
    5: From the throne issue flashes of lightning, and voices and peals of thunder, and before the throne burn seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God;
    6: and before the throne there is as it were a sea of glass, like crystal. And round the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind:
    7: the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like a flying eagle.
    8: And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all round and within, and day and night they never cease to sing, "Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come!"
    9: And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives for ever and ever,
    10: the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives for ever and ever; they cast their crowns before the throne, singing,
    11: "Worthy art thou, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou didst create all things, and by thy will they existed and were created."

End of day 354.