Day 193:

Reading Song-of-Songs, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
    2: O that you would kiss me with the kisses of your mouth! For your love is better than wine,
    3: your anointing oils are fragrant, your name is oil poured out; therefore the maidens love you.
    4: Draw me after you, let us make haste. The king has brought me into his chambers. We will exult and rejoice in you; we will extol your love more than wine; rightly do they love you.
    5: I am very dark, but comely, O daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.
    6: Do not gaze at me because I am swarthy, because the sun has scorched me. My mother's sons were angry with me, they made me keeper of the vineyards; but, my own vineyard I have not kept!
    7: Tell me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture your flock, where you make it lie down at noon; for why should I be like one who wanders beside the flocks of your companions?
    8: If you do not know, O fairest among women, follow in the tracks of the flock, and pasture your kids beside the shepherds' tents.
    9: I compare you, my love, to a mare of Pharaoh's chariots.
    10: Your cheeks are comely with ornaments, your neck with strings of jewels.
    11: We will make you ornaments of gold, studded with silver.
    12: While the king was on his couch, my nard gave forth its fragrance.
    13: My beloved is to me a bag of myrrh, that lies between my breasts.
    14: My beloved is to me a cluster of henna blossoms in the vineyards of Enge'di.
    15: Behold, you are beautiful, my love; behold, you are beautiful; your eyes are doves.
    16: Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, truly lovely. Our couch is green;
    17: the beams of our house are cedar, our rafters are pine.

  Chapter 2.

    1: I am a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys.
    2: As a lily among brambles, so is my love among maidens.
    3: As an apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among young men. With great delight I sat in his shadow, and his fruit was sweet to my taste.
    4: He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love.
    5: Sustain me with raisins, refresh me with apples; for I am sick with love.
    6: O that his left hand were under my head, and that his right hand embraced me!
    7: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the hinds of the field, that you stir not up nor awaken love until it please.
    8: The voice of my beloved! Behold, he comes, leaping upon the mountains, bounding over the hills.
    9: My beloved is like a gazelle, or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing in at the windows, looking through the lattice.
    10: My beloved speaks and says to me: "Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away;
    11: for lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone.
    12: The flowers appear on the earth, the time of singing has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
    13: The fig tree puts forth its figs, and the vines are in blossom; they give forth fragrance. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away.
    14: O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the covert of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet, and your face is comely.
    15: Catch us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vineyards, for our vineyards are in blossom."
    16: My beloved is mine and I am his, he pastures his flock among the lilies.
    17: Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, turn, my beloved, be like a gazelle, or a young stag upon rugged mountains.

  Chapter 3.

    1: Upon my bed by night I sought him whom my soul loves; I sought him, but found him not; I called him, but he gave no answer.
    2: "I will rise now and go about the city, in the streets and in the squares; I will seek him whom my soul loves." I sought him, but found him not.
    3: The watchmen found me, as they went about in the city. "Have you seen him whom my soul loves?"
    4: Scarcely had I passed them, when I found him whom my soul loves. I held him, and would not let him go until I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her that conceived me.
    5: I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the hinds of the field, that you stir not up nor awaken love until it please.
    6: What is that coming up from the wilderness, like a column of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all the fragrant powders of the merchant?
    7: Behold, it is the litter of Solomon! About it are sixty mighty men of the mighty men of Israel,
    8: all girt with swords and expert in war, each with his sword at his thigh, against alarms by night.
    9: King Solomon made himself a palanquin from the wood of Lebanon.
    10: He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple; it was lovingly wrought within by the daughters of Jerusalem.
    11: Go forth, O daughters of Zion, and behold King Solomon, with the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness of his heart.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are doves behind your veil. Your hair is like a flock of goats, moving down the slopes of Gilead.
    2: Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and not one among them is bereaved.
    3: Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
    4: Your neck is like the tower of David, built for an arsenal, whereon hang a thousand bucklers, all of them shields of warriors.
    5: Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, that feed among the lilies.
    6: Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, I will hie me to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense.
    7: You are all fair, my love; there is no flaw in you.
    8: Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; come with me from Lebanon. Depart from the peak of Ama'na, from the peak of Senir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.
    9: You have ravished my heart, my sister, my bride, you have ravished my heart with a glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
    10: How sweet is your love, my sister, my bride! how much better is your love than wine, and the fragrance of your oils than any spice!
    11: Your lips distil nectar, my bride; honey and milk are under your tongue; the scent of your garments is like the scent of Lebanon.
    12: A garden locked is my sister, my bride, a garden locked, a fountain sealed.
    13: Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates with all choicest fruits, henna with nard,
    14: nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all chief spices --
    15: a garden fountain, a well of living water, and flowing streams from Lebanon.
    16: Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind! Blow upon my garden, let its fragrance be wafted abroad. Let my beloved come to his garden, and eat its choicest fruits.

End of day 193.