Day 35:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: The LORD said to Moses,
    2: "Speak to the people of Israel, and get from them rods, one for each fathers' house, from all their leaders according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods. Write each man's name upon his rod,
    3: and write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi. For there shall be one rod for the head of each fathers' house.
    4: Then you shall deposit them in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
    5: And the rod of the man whom I choose shall sprout; thus I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the people of Israel, which they murmur against you."
    6: Moses spoke to the people of Israel; and all their leaders gave him rods, one for each leader, according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods; and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.
    7: And Moses deposited the rods before the LORD in the tent of the testimony.
    8: And on the morrow Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and it bore ripe almonds.
    9: Then Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD to all the people of Israel; and they looked, and each man took his rod.
    10: And the LORD said to Moses, "Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept as a sign for the rebels, that you may make an end of their murmurings against me, lest they die."
    11: Thus did Moses; as the LORD commanded him, so he did.
    12: And the people of Israel said to Moses, "Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone.
    13: Every one who comes near, who comes near to the tabernacle of the LORD, shall die. Are we all to perish?"

  Chapter 18.

    1: So the LORD said to Aaron, "You and your sons and your fathers' house with you shall bear iniquity in connection with the sanctuary; and you and your sons with you shall bear iniquity in connection with your priesthood.
    2: And with you bring your brethren also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, that they may join you, and minister to you while you and your sons with you are before the tent of the testimony.
    3: They shall attend you and attend to all duties of the tent; but shall not come near to the vessels of the sanctuary or to the altar, lest they, and you, die.
    4: They shall join you, and attend to the tent of meeting, for all the service of the tent; and no one else shall come near you.
    5: And you shall attend to the duties of the sanctuary and the duties of the altar, that there be wrath no more upon the people of Israel.
    6: And behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the people of Israel; they are a gift to you, given to the LORD, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
    7: And you and your sons with you shall attend to your priesthood for all that concerns the altar and that is within the veil; and you shall serve. I give your priesthood as a gift, and any one else who comes near shall be put to death."
    8: Then the LORD said to Aaron, "And behold, I have given you whatever is kept of the offerings made to me, all the consecrated things of the people of Israel; I have given them to you as a portion, and to your sons as a perpetual due.
    9: This shall be yours of the most holy things, reserved from the fire; every offering of theirs, every cereal offering of theirs and every sin offering of theirs and every guilt offering of theirs, which they render to me, shall be most holy to you and to your sons.
    10: In a most holy place shall you eat of it; every male may eat of it; it is holy to you.
    11: This also is yours, the offering of their gift, all the wave offerings of the people of Israel; I have given them to you, and to your sons and daughters with you, as a perpetual due; every one who is clean in your house may eat of it.
    12: All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine and of the grain, the first fruits of what they give to the LORD, I give to you.
    13: The first ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to the LORD, shall be yours; every one who is clean in your house may eat of it.
    14: Every devoted thing in Israel shall be yours.
    15: Everything that opens the womb of all flesh, whether man or beast, which they offer to the LORD, shall be yours; nevertheless the first-born of man you shall redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts you shall redeem.
    16: And their redemption price (at a month old you shall redeem them) you shall fix at five shekels in silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.
    17: But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are holy. You shall sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shall burn their fat as an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the LORD;
    18: but their flesh shall be yours, as the breast that is waved and as the right thigh are yours.
    19: All the holy offerings which the people of Israel present to the LORD I give to you, and to your sons and daughters with you, as a perpetual due; it is a covenant of salt for ever before the LORD for you and for your offspring with you."
    20: And the LORD said to Aaron, "You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among them; I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel.
    21: "To the Levites I have given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they serve, their service in the tent of meeting.
    22: And henceforth the people of Israel shall not come near the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin and die.
    23: But the Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity; it shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations; and among the people of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
    24: For the tithe of the people of Israel, which they present as an offering to the LORD, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance; therefore I have said of them that they shall have no inheritance among the people of Israel."
    25: And the LORD said to Moses,
    26: "Moreover you shall say to the Levites, `When you take from the people of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present an offering from it to the LORD, a tithe of the tithe.
    27: And your offering shall be reckoned to you as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fulness of the wine press.
    28: So shall you also present an offering to the LORD from all your tithes, which you receive from the people of Israel; and from it you shall give the LORD's offering to Aaron the priest.
    29: Out of all the gifts to you, you shall present every offering due to the LORD, from all the best of them, giving the hallowed part from them.'
    30: Therefore you shall say to them, `When you have offered from it the best of it, then the rest shall be reckoned to the Levites as produce of the threshing floor, and as produce of the wine press;
    31: and you may eat it in any place, you and your households; for it is your reward in return for your service in the tent of meeting.
    32: And you shall bear no sin by reason of it, when you have offered the best of it. And you shall not profane the holy things of the people of Israel, lest you die.'"

  Chapter 19.

    1: Now the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron,
    2: "This is the statute of the law which the LORD has commanded: Tell the people of Israel to bring you a red heifer without defect, in which there is no blemish, and upon which a yoke has never come.
    3: And you shall give her to Elea'zar the priest, and she shall be taken outside the camp and slaughtered before him;
    4: and Elea'zar the priest shall take some of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle some of her blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times.
    5: And the heifer shall be burned in his sight; her skin, her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall be burned;
    6: and the priest shall take cedarwood and hyssop and scarlet stuff, and cast them into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
    7: Then the priest shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterwards he shall come into the camp; and the priest shall be unclean until evening.
    8: He who burns the heifer shall wash his clothes in water and bathe his body in water, and shall be unclean until evening.
    9: And a man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and deposit them outside the camp in a clean place; and they shall be kept for the congregation of the people of Israel for the water for impurity, for the removal of sin.
    10: And he who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until evening. And this shall be to the people of Israel, and to the stranger who sojourns among them, a perpetual statute.
    11: "He who touches the dead body of any person shall be unclean seven days;
    12: he shall cleanse himself with the water on the third day and on the seventh day, and so be clean; but if he does not cleanse himself on the third day and on the seventh day, he will not become clean.
    13: Whoever touches a dead person, the body of any man who has died, and does not cleanse himself, defiles the tabernacle of the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from Israel; because the water for impurity was not thrown upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is still on him.
    14: "This is the law when a man dies in a tent: every one who comes into the tent, and every one who is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
    15: And every open vessel, which has no cover fastened upon it, is unclean.
    16: Whoever in the open field touches one who is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
    17: For the unclean they shall take some ashes of the burnt sin offering, and running water shall be added in a vessel;
    18: then a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the furnishings, and upon the persons who were there, and upon him who touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave;
    19: and the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day and on the seventh day; thus on the seventh day he shall cleanse him, and he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and at evening he shall be clean.
    20: "But the man who is unclean and does not cleanse himself, that person shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, since he has defiled the sanctuary of the LORD; because the water for impurity has not been thrown upon him, he is unclean.
    21: And it shall be a perpetual statute for them. He who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his clothes; and he who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening.
    22: And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and any one who touches it shall be unclean until evening."

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month, and the people stayed in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
    2: Now there was no water for the congregation; and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
    3: And the people contended with Moses, and said, "Would that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!
    4: Why have you brought the assembly of the LORD into this wilderness, that we should die here, both we and our cattle?
    5: And why have you made us come up out of Egypt, to bring us to this evil place? It is no place for grain, or figs, or vines, or pomegranates; and there is no water to drink."
    6: Then Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tent of meeting, and fell on their faces. And the glory of the LORD appeared to them,
    7: and the LORD said to Moses,
    8: "Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, you and Aaron your brother, and tell the rock before their eyes to yield its water; so you shall bring water out of the rock for them; so you shall give drink to the congregation and their cattle."
    9: And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
    10: And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, "Hear now, you rebels; shall we bring forth water for you out of this rock?"
    11: And Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock with his rod twice; and water came forth abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their cattle.
    12: And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "Because you did not believe in me, to sanctify me in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them."
    13: These are the waters of Mer'ibah, where the people of Israel contended with the LORD, and he showed himself holy among them.
    14: Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, "Thus says your brother Israel: You know all the adversity that has befallen us:
    15: how our fathers went down to Egypt, and we dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians dealt harshly with us and our fathers;
    16: and when we cried to the LORD, he heard our voice, and sent an angel and brought us forth out of Egypt; and here we are in Kadesh, a city on the edge of your territory.
    17: Now let us pass through your land. We will not pass through field or vineyard, neither will we drink water from a well; we will go along the King's Highway, we will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, until we have passed through your territory."
    18: But Edom said to him, "You shall not pass through, lest I come out with the sword against you."
    19: And the people of Israel said to him, "We will go up by the highway; and if we drink of your water, I and my cattle, then I will pay for it; let me only pass through on foot, nothing more."
    20: But he said, "You shall not pass through." And Edom came out against them with many men, and with a strong force.
    21: Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his territory; so Israel turned away from him.
    22: And they journeyed from Kadesh, and the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor.
    23: And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor, on the border of the land of Edom,
    24: "Aaron shall be gathered to his people; for he shall not enter the land which I have given to the people of Israel, because you rebelled against my command at the waters of Mer'ibah.
    25: Take Aaron and Elea'zar his son, and bring them up to Mount Hor;
    26: and strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Elea'zar his son; and Aaron shall be gathered to his people, and shall die there."
    27: Moses did as the LORD commanded; and they went up Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
    28: And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Elea'zar his son; and Aaron died there on the top of the mountain. Then Moses and Elea'zar came down from the mountain.
    29: And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, all the house of Israel wept for Aaron thirty days.

End of day 35.