Day 51:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: When all the kings who were beyond the Jordan in the hill country and in the lowland all along the coast of the Great Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites, heard of this,
    2: they gathered together with one accord to fight Joshua and Israel.
    3: But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai,
    4: they on their part acted with cunning, and went and made ready provisions, and took worn-out sacks upon their asses, and wineskins, worn-out and torn and mended,
    5: with worn-out, patched sandals on their feet, and worn-out clothes; and all their provisions were dry and moldy.
    6: And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal, and said to him and to the men of Israel, "We have come from a far country; so now make a covenant with us."
    7: But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, "Perhaps you live among us; then how can we make a covenant with you?"
    8: They said to Joshua, "We are your servants." And Joshua said to them, "Who are you? And where do you come from?"
    9: They said to him, "From a very far country your servants have come, because of the name of the LORD your God; for we have heard a report of him, and all that he did in Egypt,
    10: and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan, who dwelt in Ash'taroth.
    11: And our elders and all the inhabitants of our country said to us, `Take provisions in your hand for the journey, and go to meet them, and say to them, "We are your servants; come now, make a covenant with us."'
    12: Here is our bread; it was still warm when we took it from our houses as our food for the journey, on the day we set forth to come to you, but now, behold, it is dry and moldy;
    13: these wineskins were new when we filled them, and behold, they are burst; and these garments and shoes of ours are worn out from the very long journey."
    14: So the men partook of their provisions, and did not ask direction from the LORD.
    15: And Joshua made peace with them, and made a covenant with them, to let them live; and the leaders of the congregation swore to them.
    16: At the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they dwelt among them.
    17: And the people of Israel set out and reached their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chephi'rah, Be-er'oth, and Kir'iath-je'arim.
    18: But the people of Israel did not kill them, because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to them by the LORD, the God of Israel. Then all the congregation murmured against the leaders.
    19: But all the leaders said to all the congregation, "We have sworn to them by the LORD, the God of Israel, and now we may not touch them.
    20: This we will do to them, and let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath which we swore to them."
    21: And the leaders said to them, "Let them live." So they became hewers of wood and drawers of water for all the congregation, as the leaders had said of them.
    22: Joshua summoned them, and he said to them, "Why did you deceive us, saying, `We are very far from you,' when you dwell among us?
    23: Now therefore you are cursed, and some of you shall always be slaves, hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God."
    24: They answered Joshua, "Because it was told to your servants for a certainty that the LORD your God had commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you; so we feared greatly for our lives because of you, and did this thing.
    25: And now, behold, we are in your hand: do as it seems good and right in your sight to do to us."
    26: So he did to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the people of Israel; and they did not kill them.
    27: But Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the altar of the LORD, to continue to this day, in the place which he should choose.

  Chapter 10.

    1: When Ado'ni-ze'dek king of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it, doing to Ai and its king as he had done to Jericho and its king, and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them,
    2: he feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty.
    3: So Ado'ni-ze'dek king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Piram king of Jarmuth, to Japhi'a king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
    4: "Come up to me, and help me, and let us smite Gibeon; for it has made peace with Joshua and with the people of Israel."
    5: Then the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, gathered their forces, and went up with all their armies and encamped against Gibeon, and made war against it.
    6: And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, "Do not relax your hand from your servants; come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us; for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the hill country are gathered against us."
    7: So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
    8: And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hands; there shall not a man of them stand before you."
    9: So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having marched up all night from Gilgal.
    10: And the LORD threw them into a panic before Israel, who slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them by the way of the ascent of Beth-hor'on, and smote them as far as Aze'kah and Makke'dah.
    11: And as they fled before Israel, while they were going down the ascent of Beth-hor'on, the LORD threw down great stones from heaven upon them as far as Aze'kah, and they died; there were more who died because of the hailstones than the men of Israel killed with the sword.
    12: Then spoke Joshua to the LORD in the day when the LORD gave the Amorites over to the men of Israel; and he said in the sight of Israel, "Sun, stand thou still at Gibeon, and thou Moon in the valley of Ai'jalon."
    13: And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation took vengeance on their enemies.
    14: There has been no day like it before or since, when the LORD hearkened to the voice of a man; for the LORD fought for Israel.
    15: Then Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
    16: These five kings fled, and hid themselves in the cave at Makke'dah.
    17: And it was told Joshua, "The five kings have been found, hidden in the cave at Makke'dah."
    18: And Joshua said, "Roll great stones against the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to guard them;
    19: but do not stay there yourselves, pursue your enemies, fall upon their rear, do not let them enter their cities; for the LORD your God has given them into your hand."
    20: When Joshua and the men of Israel had finished slaying them with a very great slaughter, until they were wiped out, and when the remnant which remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
    21: all the people returned safe to Joshua in the camp at Makke'dah; not a man moved his tongue against any of the people of Israel.
    22: Then Joshua said, "Open the mouth of the cave, and bring those five kings out to me from the cave."
    23: And they did so, and brought those five kings out to him from the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
    24: And when they brought those kings out to Joshua, Joshua summoned all the men of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, "Come near, put your feet upon the necks of these kings." Then they came near, and put their feet on their necks.
    25: And Joshua said to them, "Do not be afraid or dismayed; be strong and of good courage; for thus the LORD will do to all your enemies against whom you fight."
    26: And afterward Joshua smote them and put them to death, and he hung them on five trees. And they hung upon the trees until evening;
    27: but at the time of the going down of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees, and threw them into the cave where they had hidden themselves, and they set great stones against the mouth of the cave, which remain to this very day.
    28: And Joshua took Makke'dah on that day, and smote it and its king with the edge of the sword; he utterly destroyed every person in it, he left none remaining; and he did to the king of Makke'dah as he had done to the king of Jericho.
    29: Then Joshua passed on from Makke'dah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah;
    30: and the LORD gave it also and its king into the hand of Israel; and he smote it with the edge of the sword, and every person in it; he left none remaining in it; and he did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho.
    31: And Joshua passed on from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and laid siege to it, and assaulted it:
    32: and the LORD gave Lachish into the hand of Israel, and he took it on the second day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and every person in it, as he had done to Libnah.
    33: Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish; and Joshua smote him and his people, until he left none remaining.
    34: And Joshua passed on with all Israel from Lachish to Eglon; and they laid siege to it, and assaulted it;
    35: and they took it on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword; and every person in it he utterly destroyed that day, as he had done to Lachish.
    36: Then Joshua went up with all Israel from Eglon to Hebron; and they assaulted it,
    37: and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and its king and its towns, and every person in it; he left none remaining, as he had done to Eglon, and utterly destroyed it with every person in it.
    38: Then Joshua, with all Israel, turned back to Debir and assaulted it,
    39: and he took it with its king and all its towns; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed every person in it; he left none remaining; as he had done to Hebron and to Libnah and its king, so he did to Debir and to its king.
    40: So Joshua defeated the whole land, the hill country and the Negeb and the lowland and the slopes, and all their kings; he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the LORD God of Israel commanded.
    41: And Joshua defeated them from Ka'desh-bar'nea to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, as far as Gibeon.
    42: And Joshua took all these kings and their land at one time, because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.
    43: Then Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.

  Chapter 11.

    1: When Jabin king of Hazor heard of this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Ach'shaph,
    2: and to the kings who were in the northern hill country, and in the Arabah south of Chin'neroth, and in the lowland, and in Naphoth-dor on the west,
    3: to the Canaanites in the east and the west, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Per'izzites, and the Jeb'usites in the hill country, and the Hivites under Hermon in the land of Mizpah.
    4: And they came out, with all their troops, a great host, in number like the sand that is upon the seashore, with very many horses and chariots.
    5: And all these kings joined their forces, and came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight with Israel.
    6: And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid of them, for tomorrow at this time I will give over all of them, slain, to Israel; you shall hamstring their horses, and burn their chariots with fire."
    7: So Joshua came suddenly upon them with all his people of war, by the waters of Merom, and fell upon them.
    8: And the LORD gave them into the hand of Israel, who smote them and chased them as far as Great Sidon and Mis'rephoth-ma'im, and eastward as far as the valley of Mizpeh; and they smote them, until they left none remaining.
    9: And Joshua did to them as the LORD bade him; he hamstrung their horses, and burned their chariots with fire.
    10: And Joshua turned back at that time, and took Hazor, and smote its king with the sword; for Hazor formerly was the head of all those kingdoms.
    11: And they put to the sword all who were in it, utterly destroying them; there was none left that breathed, and he burned Hazor with fire.
    12: And all the cities of those kings, and all their kings, Joshua took, and smote them with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them, as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded.
    13: But none of the cities that stood on mounds did Israel burn, except Hazor only; that Joshua burned.
    14: And all the spoil of these cities and the cattle, the people of Israel took for their booty; but every man they smote with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them, and they did not leave any that breathed.
    15: As the LORD had commanded Moses his servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did; he left nothing undone of all that the LORD had commanded Moses.
    16: So Joshua took all that land, the hill country and all the Negeb and all the land of Goshen and the lowland and the Arabah and the hill country of Israel and its lowland
    17: from Mount Halak, that rises toward Se'ir, as far as Ba'al-gad in the valley of Lebanon below Mount Hermon. And he took all their kings, and smote them, and put them to death.
    18: Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
    19: There was not a city that made peace with the people of Israel, except the Hivites, the inhabitants of Gibeon; they took all in battle.
    20: For it was the LORD's doing to harden their hearts that they should come against Israel in battle, in order that they should be utterly destroyed, and should receive no mercy but be exterminated, as the LORD commanded Moses.
    21: And Joshua came at that time, and wiped out the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel; Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities.
    22: There was none of the Anakim left in the land of the people of Israel; only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, did some remain.
    23: So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD had spoken to Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their tribal allotments. And the land had rest from war.

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now these are the kings of the land, whom the people of Israel defeated, and took possession of their land beyond the Jordan toward the sunrising, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon, with all the Arabah eastward:
    2: Sihon king of the Amorites who dwelt at Heshbon, and ruled from Aro'er, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and from the middle of the valley as far as the river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites, that is, half of Gilead,
    3: and the Arabah to the Sea of Chin'neroth eastward, and in the direction of Beth-jesh'imoth, to the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, southward to the foot of the slopes of Pisgah;
    4: and Og king of Bashan, one of the remnant of the Reph'aim, who dwelt at Ash'taroth and at Ed're-i
    5: and ruled over Mount Hermon and Sal'ecah and all Bashan to the boundary of the Gesh'urites and the Ma-ac'athites, and over half of Gilead to the boundary of Sihon king of Heshbon.
    6: Moses, the servant of the LORD, and the people of Israel defeated them; and Moses the servant of the LORD gave their land for a possession to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manas'seh.
    7: And these are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the people of Israel defeated on the west side of the Jordan, from Ba'al-gad in the valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, that rises toward Se'ir (and Joshua gave their land to the tribes of Israel as a possession according to their allotments,
    8: in the hill country, in the lowland, in the Arabah, in the slopes, in the wilderness, and in the Negeb, the land of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Per'izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb'usites):
    9: the king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
    10: the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;
    11: the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;
    12: the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;
    13: the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;
    14: the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;
    15: the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;
    16: the king of Makke'dah, one; the king of Bethel, one;
    17: the king of Tap'puah, one; the king of Hepher, one;
    18: the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lashar'on, one;
    19: the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;
    20: the king of Shim'ron-me'ron, one; the king of Ach'shaph, one;
    21: the king of Ta'anach, one; the king of Megid'do, one;
    22: the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jok'ne-am in Carmel, one;
    23: the king of Dor in Naphath-dor, one; the king of Goi'im in Galilee, one;
    24: the king of Tirzah, one: in all, thirty-one kings.

End of day 51.